Joe Rogan podcast. Check it out.
>> The Joe Rogan Experience.
>> Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by
night. All day.
>> So, you were saying you replace Mike
Baker?
>> Yeah, Mike's a great guy. He was a good
officer. He was uh he doesn't really
talk about his work a lot. Maybe it's
cuz a lot of years have passed, but he
was the real deal. I replaced him in
Athens and he had done a lot of
preliminary leg work in Athens. Athens
was a tough place at the time. Uh the
American government spent more money on
security in Athens than they spent
anywhere else in the world, including
Beirut.
>> Why? There it was a combination of two
things. There were two indigenous Greek
groups that were exceedingly dangerous.
One was called Revolutionary
Organization 17 November. They had
killed the CIA station chief, two US
defense attaches,
just bad guys all around. The other was
called um popular revolutionary
struggle. And then on top of that, you
had Abu Nidal, the Libyans, the PFLP,
the PFLPGC, the DFLP,
everybody was there because there was
this informal agreement between the
Greek government of uh Andreas Papandreo
at the time and these terrorist groups
that if you don't kill Greeks,
we'll leave you alone.
>> Oh boy.
>> Yeah. But killing Americans wasn't part
of the deal. So, it was every man for
himself.
>> Wow. Your story is pretty nuts, man.
>> It's
>> And your story of getting in trouble and
eventually going to prison for something
that was com what they were doing, what
you reported on was completely illegal
>> and you were completely honest about it.
Um, and it was essentially about the US
torture program,
>> right?
>> Tell us how this all started. like how
long had you been involved in the CIA?
>> Oh, by then I had been in the CIA
well by the time I got to Pakistan as
the head of uh counterterrorism
operations after 9/11. I'd been in the
CIA almost 13 years and um and I was
responsible for all counterterrorism
operations in the country.
al-Qaeda was was running out of
Afghanistan into Pakistan because we
were bombing the daylights out of them.
And so my job was to find them and grab
them and then just hold them or send
them to trial was the original idea. And
um we we were planning at the time for
our first big name capture, right? Bin
Laden, Iman Zawahi. We had killed uh
Muhammad um at he was the head of what
they called military affairs for
al-Qaeda. We killed him at Tora Bora.
But then there was Abu Zubeda and then
there was this unknown person that we
later learned was Khalik Muhammad. So we
were looking for any of these four or
five people and then there were there
were others those responsible for the
embassy bombings in Africa. Uh the USS
Cole bombing.
So, it just so happened that in February
of 2002, we got a lead on Abu Zuba and
um and we captured him. It took us six
weeks to track him down and we were
close a couple of times. Close where we
would bust down the door and there's
like an uneaten like halfeaten sandwich
on the counter, a cigarette still
burning. Sometimes we were a day or two
behind him, but he knew we were looking
and he knew we were close. So, we
finally got him. And then the question
is, "What do you want to do with him?"
And they uh they told me, "Uh, hang on
to him. We're going to send out a plane
and uh we'll take it from there." So,
they did. And I wasn't cleared to know
what they were going to do with him,
just like the guys on the plane weren't
cleared to know who it was we had
captured and and who why they were
taking this guy, where they were taking
him. But, um,
>> that is that all just need to know?
>> Yeah, it's all need to know. In fact,
when I got onto the plane, we three FBI
agents and I picked him up on this
gurnie and carried him onto the plane.
We had to stand him up and maneuver him
onto the plane. Then we laid him across
the luggage rack at the back and tied
him down. And um one of the guys on the
plane, he was dressed completely in
black with a black hood on. And he says,
"John." And I said, "Who are you?" And
he lifts up his mask and he's an old
boss of mine. And I said, "Hey, what are
you doing here?" He said, "Oh, I came to
uh take you prisoner." I said, "Uh,
where are you taking him?" And he said,
'I can't tell you. You don't have a need
to know.' And I said, 'No, that's cool.
He said, 'Who is he anyway? I said, 'Oh,
dude, I'm sorry. You don't have a need
to know. He says, 'Yeah, fair enough.
Fair enough. Okay, safe travels.
>> And then, you know, your job is to take
him from point A to point B, not to
become his friend and, you know, get his
family story, just like my job is to
catch him and hand him over to the next
guy, and it's none of my business where
he's going.
And so when I got back to headquarters
in May of that year, I was just standing
in the sandwich line at the CIA
cafeteria and one of the senior guys
from the counterterrorism center came up
to me very casually and he said, "Oh,
hey. I'm glad I ran into you. I meant to
ask you, do you want to be certified in
the use of enhanced interrogation
techniques?" And I had never heard that
term before. This was May of 2002. I
said, "Enhanced interrogation
techniques? What's that mean?" And he
goes, "We're going to start getting
rough with these guys like that." And I
said, "What's that mean?" So he
describes these 10 techniques. And I
said, 'I don't know, man. That sounds
like a torture program. And he said,
"It's not a torture program. We got it
cleared by the Justice Department and
the president signed it." He says,
"Think about it." I said, "Yeah, give me
an hour. I need an hour to think about
it." I walked out of the cafeteria. I
went up to the seventh floor which is
the executive floor and um there was a
very very senior officer up there for
whom I had worked 10 years earlier in
the Middle East. Knocked on his door, no
appointment or anything. And I said,
"Hey, I need some advice. I was just
asked if I wanted to be trained in these
enhanced interrogation techniques. What
do you think of that?" And he said,
"First of all, let's call a spade a
spade." He said, "This is a torture
program. They can use whatever euphemism
they want, but this is a torture program
and torture is a slippery slope. He
said, "You know how these guys are.
Somebody's going to be a cowboy. They're
going to go overboard and they're going
to kill a prisoner. And when that
happens, there's going to be a
congressional investigation. Then
there's going to be a Justice Department
investigation and somebody's going to go
to prison. Do you want to go to prison?"
I said, "No, I don't want to go to
prison." As it turned out, I was the
only person who went to prison, but I
said, "No, I don't want to go to
prison." I went back downstairs. I said,
"Listen, I have a a moral and ethical
problem with this. I think it's illegal,
and I don't want any part of it." The
funny thing is, I had just captured Abu
Zuba, who we believed was the number
three in al-Qaeda, and I got passed over
for promotion. And the reason I got
passed over, they said, was because I
turned down the training. The head of
the counterterrorism center said in my
promotion panel that I had displayed a
shocking lack of commitment to
counterterrorism.
And then the guy who had given me the
advice
saw that my name wasn't on the promotion
list and he promoted me out of cycle. So
I I realized then I was up against
something that was going to be tough.
And then there was a psychiatrist at the
agency whom I had known for years. We we
earned the same men's group. We went to
the same church. And he happens to be
both a brigadier general in the army and
a CIA psychiatrist. And he said to me
one day,
"Buddy, you know they call you the human
rights guy behind your back." And I
said, 'Yeah, I don't care. And he said,
'You know that's not a compliment,
right? And I said, Steve, they're wrong
about this and I'm right about it. I
said, I'm I'm comfortable with the
decision that I made. And I just left it
at that. I didn't realize though how
much I had pissed them off until later
on. So all you had done essentially was
stand up for your beliefs, your morals,
your ethics in the law and you said, "I
don't want to participate in anything
that I know to be illegal."
>> That was the start. Listen, I was
>> But you're standing out against the
group.
>> And I was the only one I'm I'm I'm
almost ashamed to tell you that they
asked 14 of us if they wanted if we
wanted to be trained in the enhanced
interrogation techniques. I was the only
one who said no. Now, this doesn't
necessarily mean that you would have to
use them. You were just going to be
trained in them.
>> Oh, no. They were they were to use
>> and then but you would be required to
use these techniques.
>> So, if you were not trained in them,
then what would happen? Would would that
preclude you from ever being involved in
any sort of a questioning interrogation?
>> Yes. Which is funny for a couple of
reasons. Number one, there was no such
thing at the time as an interrogation
class, right? The FBI has deep years
long interrogation classes. We never had
to interrogate anybody. And in fact,
when we started capturing prisoners in
in uh Pakistan in January of 2002,
I'm like, "Well, what do you want me to
ask him?" I I cabled headquarters. We
caught this guy. What do you want me to
ask him? Oh, you you'll figure it out.
just go with it. I'm like, "Okay." So, I
I was working with the Pakistani
intelligence service and I said,
"Listen, I'm I'm usually the good cop.
Do you want to be the bad cop?" And he's
like, "Yeah, I'll be the bad cop." So,
we bring the prisoner out. We're sitting
there looking at him. I said, "What's
your name?" He's like, "Screw you." The
Pakistani whacks him across the face.
So, I say again, "What's your name?"
Listen, buddy. Just give me your name.
My friend here, he's not in a very good
mood. He's not a very nice guy. Just
tell me what your name is. Come on. And
then they tell you their name
>> standard.
>> Yeah.
>> So
what exactly did you know what enhanced
interrogation techniques they were going
to implement?
>> Oh yeah. That day in the cafeteria uh my
colleague explained it in great detail.
And a lot of these techniques are not
torture. Right. If I grab you by the
lapels and say dog on you and answer my
questions, that's not torture. or the
the first one was called the belly slap
uh or the intention slap was another way
they called it where I smack you in the
belly makes a cracking sound maybe it
leaves a handprint it's a little bit
embarrassing that's not torture but then
it graduated quickly to things like
water boarding which everybody knows
about but there were techniques that
were that were in my view that were
worse than water boarding like for
example there was the cold cell so they
strip you naked they chain you to an
eyebolt in the ceiling. So, you can't
you can't lay or kneel or sit or
anything. You can't get comfortable in
any way. And um they they chill the cell
to 50° Fahrenheit and then every hour
somebody comes in and throws a bucket of
ice water on you.
>> Oh,
>> but we killed people with that
technique. The Justice Department never
said we could kill people. And when we
would kill
>> people died with that
>> at least two with that technique that
that hypothermia admitted to from
hypothermia
>> and there wasn't a protocol in place to
stop them from dying.
>> No, there was later but in those early
days no later we always had a doctor on
scene. Like for example with Abu Zuba
his heart actually stopped during a
waterboarding session and the doctor
revived him just so he could be tortured
more. It's like yeah didn't the Germans
do that? Come on now. Now we're doing
it. That's not cool.
>> Is there any other way that like I know
that MK Ultra experimented with a lot of
drugs and a lot of different techniques
involved in whether it was trying to
find the truth out of people or getting
people to commit acts.
>> Was did they ever implement something
where they would give someone something?
>> That's a good question. The short answer
is yes. not in the very beginning, but
they were working with things like truth
serum and and different drugs like
relaxation drugs, uh, gabapentin, you
know, stuff like that to sort of get get
you to open up. But remember too that
the agency got in such trouble in 75 and
76 before the the church committee and
the pike committee about MK Ultra that
as soon as Senator Church said don't
destroy the documents, the director went
right back to headquarters and ordered
them to destroy everything. And so only
about 20% of the MK Ultra documents
still exist. So, we don't really know
exactly
exactly what it was that was learned in
that program, like what worked and what
didn't work. We hear these stories
about, you know, dosing the the fog
laden um air of San Francisco just to
see if everybody gets sick. We've all
read the stories about this bakery in
France where apparently we dosed the
bread and everybody in the village went
nuts. Uh but we don't really have
wholesome documentation that we could
have used operationally while
interrogating prisoners.
>> So just to avoid prosecution, they
figured out a way.
>> Yeah.
>> That's crazy. And so then whatever they
did learn is lost.
>> Yeah. It's lost
>> if there was something whether it's MDMA
or right LSD or whatever they give
people.
>> They worked with L with LSD for 20
years. at least at least 20 years. You
know, they there was an operation, it
was a sub operation of MK Ultra
>> where um they rented a safe house in San
Francisco. They recruited a bunch of
hookers and had them go out and pick up
John's, bring them back to the to the
safe house where they thought they were
going to get laid, dose them with LSD,
and then interrogate them and try to get
them to give up their deepest secrets.
It's like midnight climax.
>> Yeah. Midnight climax. Exactly. It's
like what? Nobody's agreed to do this.
You You haven't informed them properly.
These are American citizens. You can't
just take people off the streets and and
force LSD down their throat.
>> They were running the Hate Ashbury Free
Clinic. Yeah. Until right after a month
after Chaos by Tom O'Neal came out.
Yeah,
>> you're exactly right.
>> Yeah. Yeah. My mom my uh wife's mom went
there. She used to, she was a hippie in
San Francisco. She went to the hate
ashberry free clinic.
>> It was run by the CIA, which is so
crazy. And it's totally connected to
Manson. And the man
>> Oh, yeah. Mans. Exactly. Exactly. Manson
was a part of it as well.
>> It's so nuts. And they wouldn't have
even known about that until they found a
stash of documents that connected it all
together.
>> And just think of what's been destroyed,
>> right?
>> What we could have learned.
>> Exactly. We only know a small fraction
of what was done. So, is it a case of
just they're they're not elected,
they're put into power, presidents come
and go, and over the course of their
career, 20 years plus, they just have so
much power and so much ability to get
things done that they just bypass the
law.
>> Yeah. I I think that is that's the whole
story right there in a nutshell. When I
was there, I remember being shocked by
some of the old-timers who had been
there for as long as 40 or 42 years.
There was one in particular. He was the
national intelligence officer for
warning. So he was the one that was
supposed to say, you know, I'm worried
about what Libya is going to look like
10 years from now and then somebody
writes a paper about it. He had been
there for 42 years. He had to get a a
waiver from the director because he had
aged out. Well, these guys, make no
secret of of their belief that they can
outweight pretty much any president.
Presidents come and go, and these guys
are there forever. And so if the
president wants him to do something that
they don't want to do, they just slow
roll it. Just wait until he leaves and
that's the end of it. You know, that's
why I say I I've said this in interviews
a lot. There is a deep state. You don't
have to call it the deep state if you
don't want to. You can call it the
state. You can call it the federal
bureaucracy. You can call it whatever
you want. The fact is it exists and it's
unelected and it's generally
unaccountable to anybody. and they just
wait for the president to leave if they
don't want to do what he wants.
>> So, you find out about this torture
program, you won't participate. So, that
puts you on the outs. And when do you
know that this is going to be like a
significant problem in your career?
>> You know, honestly, I didn't know until
well after I left the agency. you know,
once I I turned this down
um and I got this outofcycle promotion
for the Abu Zuba operation, I was I was
named executive assistant to the CIA's
deputy director for operations. And in
that position, you have access to
literally everything that the CIA is
doing around the world. And so I'm
reading these cables coming back from
the secret site and people are saying
like, "Whoa, I didn't sign up for this.
Nobody said we're going to torture
people. I quit. And then they come home.
Or there was a secretary who fainted
once when she happened to be in the room
while Abu Zubeda was being tortured and
she curtailed her her assignment. That
means she sends a cable to headquarters
saying, "I'm coming home. I'm not doing
this anymore." That is a careerending
decision to curtail an assignment. And I
remember thinking, so I'm not the only
one who thinks this is this is illegal.
Certainly somebody's going to come out
and say something. And nobody did. This
episode is brought to you by Happy Dad
Hard Seltzer. Most hard beverages
overcomplicate everything. Happy Dad
keeps it simple. Low carbonation,
gluten-free, and only 100 calories in
every can. Barbecues, golf rounds,
hanging by the pool, chilling after
work. Happy Dad is perfect for whatever
you're up to. Everyone is drinking all
these skinny cans loaded with sugar, but
Happy Dad only has one gram of sugar in
a normal can. You can grab a variety
pack featuring lemon lime, watermelon,
pineapple, and wild cherry. And don't
sleep on the grape collab with Death Row
Records. It's a fan favorite for a
reason. Happy Dad is now available
nationwide in the USA and Canada. Go to
your local liquor store or visit
happyappydad.com.
For a limited time, use the code roan to
buy one happy dad trucker hat and get
one free. Enjoy a cold happy dad. Must
be 21 plus. Please drink responsibly.
Happy dad hard seltzer nt malt alcohol
orange county California. Like what are
the techniques that they were using that
were like causing her to faint?
The big ones were waterboarding, the
cold cell, and sleep deprivation. Sleep
deprivation doesn't sound like any big
deal. And when that finally leaked, Don
Rumsfeld, who was the Secretary of
Defense at the time, made a statement
that that still kind of sticks in my
mind. He said, "There is no such thing
as sleep deprivation." He said, "I have
a standup desk in my office. I don't
even have a chair in my office and
sometimes I'll work 24 hours and then
into the next day 36 hours. But that's
not what we're talking about here. We
know from the American Psychological
Association that people begin to lose
their minds at day seven with no sleep
and they begin to die, their organs
begin to shut down at day 9. But the CIA
was authorized to keep people awake for
12 days. And that was another thing that
caused prisoners to just die. They would
have heart failure, you know, or
>> how do they keep them awake?
>> You chain them to that eyebolt in the
ceiling again. You have these industrial
strength lights on them 24 hours a day
and like death metal 24 hours on volume
11. And um and they just can't sleep
because if they if they collapse,
they'll pull their arms out of their
sockets. They're chained to that to that
eyebolt.
>> Jeez,
>> it was bad. And then when people would
die, they would just dig a hole next to
the interrogation building, put him in
the hole, cover it up, and then bring
the next guy in.
>> No report, no nothing.
>> Nothing. There was one guy they reported
on and and headquarters wrote back and
said, "Just put him on ice until we can
figure out what to do." And they l
literally just put him in a bathtub and
filled it with ice and then just decided
a couple days later he started to turn.
We should probably bury this guy.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah, it was ugly. And and the Justice
Department never said anything about
that. They're like, "Oh, listen. Uh you
know, you can do these techniques and if
you kill him, just bury him out back."
Yeah, that wasn't the that wasn't the
approved operation.
>> Was any of it effective? Like, was there
any actionable information?
>> That's that's the worst part of this. it
it no none of it was effective. You
know, I say this all the time, Joe. It's
like a kick in my gut to have to
compliment the FBI. But if there's one
thing that the FBI is really good at,
it's interrogations. They've been doing
interrogations effectively since the
Nuremberg trials in 45 and 46. These
guys know what they're doing. And so
with Abu Zuba as an example,
we captured Abu Zubeda and normally
overseas the CIA has primacy.
Domestically the FBI has primacy, but
9/11 was still an open criminal
investigation. And so we sent Abu Zuba
out to the secret site and the FBI took
over. The CIA was furious about this.
But there was an FBI agent by the name
of Ali Sufan who did exactly as he was
trained to do. and he began to engage
Abu Zubeta in a conversation. And Abu
Zubeta just gave him the silent
treatment for weeks. This went on for
weeks. But you go in, you offer him a
cup of coffee, you offer him an orange.
If he's cooperative, you'll let him
write a letter to his mother, you know,
whatever. And finally, he opened up and
he gave us actionable intelligence that
saved American lives. And I'll give you
two examples. Number one, we had no idea
what the al-Qaeda wiring diagram looked
like. We knew it was Bin Laden and
Zoahi, and then we just didn't know
what what the organization was was like,
how it was built. So, he explained to us
how each one of these cells all around
the world was stovepiped,
compartmentalized. So, cell A had no
idea what cell B was doing. And um and
Ali said as an example
if you want to do an operation in let's
say Dusseldorf how would you do that and
Abu Zuba said well there's this guy
Muhammad and here's his here's his phone
number Muhammad lives in Dusseldorf and
he has a cousin Abdullah and Abdullah
has access to weapons and here's
Abdullah's email and then Abdullah's got
a friend Rashid they meet at the coffee
shop and Rashid has has access to
explosives Ives and then we're able to
call the Germans and say, "Hey, listen.
You have a serious problem in Dusseldorf
and here's what you need to do." And
then they kick down the door and they
grab these guys. That saved lives. The
other thing that he told us and he he
laughed actually because Ali didn't know
what the heck he was talking about. He
was talking about Mkhtar, a guy using
the Numara Mtar. We knew from our own
files that there was this guy out there
who called himself Mktd who was a very
bad guy. In 1996,
he had initiated something called the
Bojinka operation. It was supposed to be
carried out uh in the Philippines and
the idea was to hijack as many as 14
747s
and then fly them into buildings all up
and down the west coast of the United
States. It just so happened that one day
Mkhuar working on his plan, his
diabolical terrorism plan, he went out
to have lunch. And when he went out to
have lunch, the cleaning lady came in to
clean the apartment. And she sees all
this stuff laid out and she said, "That
looks like a terrorist attack being
planned." She calls the cops. The cops
come and say, "Oo, this looks like a
terrorist attack. We better call the
Philippine Intelligence Service." They
come and look at it and somebody says,
"We should probably call the CIA on
this." And so we confiscated everything
and Bojinko was disrupted.
>> That's crazy.
>> It's crazy.
>> A cleaning lady.
>> You never know. You just never know.
>> It's just crazy that he would leave the
plans just laying around
>> thinking nobody's nobody's going to
come. Nobody's going to see it. And then
he ran off. So we knew there was this
guy out there planning this big thing
and his name was Mktar. Abu Zuba laughed
at us and said you don't know who Mktar
is. And Ali said no. And Abu Zuba said
his name is Khaled Shikh Muhammad.
That's the first time we ever heard that
name. We didn't have any documents in
any files that were about any guy named
Khaled Shik Muhammad. But that was the
very first time we were able to piece it
all together. And it was thanks to Abu
Zuba in turn thanks to Ali Sufan's
treating Abu Zuba with respect. But on
August the 1st, George Ten 2002, George
Tennant went to the White House and he
asked the president for reasons that
have never been made clear. He asked the
president to turn over primacy to the
CIA.
He did that. And the CIA director,
Robert Mueller, to his credit, he knew
exactly what was going to come. not only
withdrew FBI personnel from the secret
site, he withdrew FBI personnel from the
country that the secret site was in and
within 12 hours the CIA began to torture
Abus Beta. He went completely silent and
remained silent and then the FBI went
back to the president and said, "Look,
the CIA is screwing this up. We were
getting all this intelligence from this
guy. Now he won't say anything. And
we're putting him in a coffin. And we we
heard that he had this irrational fear
of bugs. So we we pour a box of
cockroaches on him in the coffin and
close up the coffin. And we would open
it up every couple days to change his
diaper and give him food. And he went
nuts. And so finally the White House
turns everything back over to the FBI.
It takes Ali months to get him to talk
again. And then he starts talking again.
and he's given us more and more
information about al-Qaeda operations in
Malaysia and anti- Australia operations
and what's going on in Canada and how
al-Qaeda is able to move across borders
uh between Europe and Asia and then the
CIA comes back in again and starts
torturing him again
>> and screwed it all up. Now, why would
they do that? I don't understand. If
you're getting information
>> Mhm.
>> why would they decide to ramp it up and
torture him?
>> I think for a couple of reasons. I think
we should never underestimate the
motivating factor of of a desire for
revenge. Right? This was the worst
intelligence failure in the history of
the country. 3,000 people died because
we hadn't done our jobs.
So that was one thing. The other thing
is the CIA had entered into an agreement
with these two contract psychologists uh
James Mitchell and Bruce Jessen in
October of 2001 and they said hey we've
reverse engineered the military's SEIR
program and we think this would be an
effective but harsh uh interrogation
technique. And so we were chomping at
the bit at the agency to try this thing
out without using the word torture. We
paid those guys $18
million
to say, "Oh, we think you should torture
people. Here's here are the torture
techniques. Just let us know when you
want us to start." $108 million for
that. And so we thought, "Well, we've
already spent the money and we really do
want revenge on these guys, so what the
hell? Let's just let's just go for it."
I think that's what it was.
>> Wow.
So, how did you get in trouble?
>> I waited for somebody to say something
about torture and nobody did. And then I
got divorced. My my kids moved with my
ex-wife to Ohio and they were little.
They needed their dad. So, I decided I'm
going to leave the agency, go into the
private sector so I can see my boys on
the weekends. And um and still I waited
for somebody to say something and nobody
did. Now, I wish that I could tell you
that I stood up and I took a stand and
and that wasn't it at all. I got a call
in December of 2007. So now I I'm out of
the agency three and a half years. I got
a call from Brian Ross at ABC News and
he said that he had a source who said I
had tortured Abu Zabeta. I said that was
absolutely false. I was the only person
who was kind to Abu Zubeda. I said, I've
never laid a hand on Abu Zubeda or any
other prisoner.
And he said, well, you're welcome to
come on the show and defend yourself.
Well, I had never spoken to an an a
reporter before. I I didn't know that
was a reporter's trick. So, I said, I'll
think about it. In the meantime,
President Bush, I remember it being a
Monday. President Bush gives a press
conference and
the International Committee of the Red
Cross had said in a paper that the CIA
was torturing prisoners. Uh, Human
Rights Watch said CIA is torturing
prisoners and Amnesty International said
CIA's torturing prisoners. So, a
reporter says, "Look, all these
international human rights organizations
are saying that the CIA is torturing its
prisoners. What's your response to
that?" And the president looks right in
the camera and he goes, "We do not
torture like that." And I said to my
wife, who was a senior CIA officer, I
said, "He is a bald-faced liar. He's
looking the American people right in the
eye, and he's lying to us." And she
said, "Are you surprised?"
Well, then on Wednesday, two days later,
um he gets another a similar question
and he said that there is no torture. I
knew he was lying. And then another two
days later, it's Friday and he's walking
from the South Portico of the White
House to the helicopter to go to Camp
David for the weekend and a torture
shout a torture, a reporter shouts
another question about torture. And this
time he stops and he turns and he says,
"Well, if there is torture, it's because
of a rogue CIA officer." And I said to
my wife, "Brian Ross's sources at the
White House and they're going to pin
this on me." So I called Brian Ross and
I said, "I'll give you your interview."
And I decided in the whatever it was,
>> why did you think they were going to pin
it on you? Because they were calling you
the human rights guy. So that you were
going to be a
>> pathy.
And I was not willing assumed that that
was happen because that's just your
experience with the organization.
>> Oh yeah. They're going to leave somebody
out to dry to protect themselves. So I
called Brian Ross. I said, "I'll give
you your interview." And I decided that
whatever he was going to ask me, and he
never told me in advance what he was
going to ask me, I was just going to
tell the truth. And so he met me at uh
the ABC News uh studios on Dale Street
in Washington. And um and I said three
things in that interview that changed
the course of the rest of my life. I
said that the CIA was torturing its
prisoners. I said that torture was
official US government policy. It was
not the result of any rogue officer. And
I said that the policy had been
personally approved by the president
himself.
And then, as you can imagine, within 24
hours, the CIA files what's called a
crimes report against me with the FBI,
saying that I had revealed classified
information.
The FBI then investigates me from
December of ' 07 to December of '08. And
then they send my attorney a letter
called a declination letter declining to
prosecute. They said that they had
completed their investigation, that the
information was already out there
because of Amnesty International, Human
Rights Watch, and the Red Cross. But
most importantly, torture is a crime,
and it is illegal to classify a crime
for the purpose of keeping it from the
American people. So, no charges. My wife
and I went out to celebrate that night.
We went to dinner.
Three, four weeks later, Barack Obama
becomes president and he names John
Brennan. At first, CIA director, but the
liberals went crazy because Brennan was
one of the fathers of the torture
program. Everybody seems to forget that
now, and we can get into that if you
want, but um but he then names Brennan
the deputy national security adviser for
counterterrorism.
Brennan immediately sends a memo to Eric
Holder, the new attorney general,
and says, talking about me, charge him
with espionage.
And Holder writes back, we we got these
memos in discovery when I went to trial.
Um Holder writes back and says, "My
people don't think he committed
espionage."
And then Brennan writes back and says,
"Charge him anyway and make him defend
himself." So they charged me with five
felonies, three counts of espionage.
They waited until I went bankrupt
and then they dropped the espionage
charges.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh god, that's so gross.
>> That's Washington. It's just so hard to
believe that the United States of
America government works like that. I
believe it. I believe it. It's hard to
swallow.
>> There's a book by Harvey Silverglate
who's a professor of law at Harvard
University. The book is called Three
Felonies a Day. And he says that we are
so overregulated, so overcriminalized
in this country that the average
American on the average day going about
his or her normal daily business commits
three felonies every single day. So if
they want to get you, they're going to
get you. And there's nothing you can do
to protect yourself.
[Music]
So, what was Brennan's beef with you?
>> Was it just because of the fact that you
did that interview or was there
underlying tension? We were never pals.
I've known John Brennan for 35 years. We
never really cared for each other. To
tell you the truth,
I I thought the guy was in over his head
intellectually.
Uh he when I first started there, he was
a deputy group chief. He was a GS-15
nobody journeyman, you know, first line,
second line manager, no big deal. There
are hundreds of them. And he worked for
this really wonderful woman, a a great
intellect, uh named Martha Kesler. And
Martha was so highly respected. She had
written this book, I still remember the
title, called Syria, Fragile Mosaic of
Power. And when you got hired, you got
her book. and you had to read the book
because like this is what we do. This is
the perfect example of what we do. So he
was her deputy. One day he went to her
and he said, "Martha, you know, I've
been your deputy for x number of years.
I think I'm ready for promotion into the
senior intelligence service." And Martha
said, and I just talked to her daughter
a couple of weeks ago about this. Martha
said,
"Not only will you never be a member of
the senior intelligence service, I don't
even want you working for me anymore.
you're fired. Well, you're not really
fired at the CIA. If you're fired, that
means you have six weeks to walk the
halls and find another job. If you can't
find another job in six weeks, then they
escort you to your car, they take your
badge, and you know, so long, good luck.
Well, it's the normal job turnover is in
the summertime. This is the week before
Christmas
or four, I can't recall now. And um
there are no jobs open at Christmas. So
he finally finds one job. It is in the
PDB staff, the president's daily brief,
and it is as a a morning briefer,
giving the president's daily brief
briefing to the lowest ranking person
and titled to a PDB briefing. So that's
the National Security Council's director
for intelligence programs, who happened
to be this guy named George Tennant.
And so they immediately hit it off. two
alpha dogs cigar smoking hard drink and
there used to be a kiosk right at the
corner of 17th and Pennsylvania Avenue
adjacent to the White House that sold
cigars. Tenant had had a heart attack
and he wasn't supposed to smoke and his
wife would yell at him. So they would
after the briefing they'd walk out to
the kiosk and buy cigars and just stand
there and laugh and you know talk about
chasing women or whatever. Totally hit
it off. Then Tenant becomes the deputy
director of the CIA. So he brings he
brings Brennan back with him and makes
him Martha Kesler's boss, deputy
director of the office that Martha's
working in. He calls Martha Kesler in
and says, "Now you're fired." And so she
just elected to retire.
Well, he ended up being identified by
tenant as the guy like this is my guy.
This guy's going places. He needs
operational experience because he's been
an analyst and an analytic manager all
these years. I'm going to make him the
station chief in Riyad, Saudi Arabia.
He's an analyst. He's never served
overseas before. Never recruited a spy
ever. It wasn't his job. Now all of a
sudden, he's the the station chief in
one of the most important stations in
the world. So he does that for a long
time, by the way, during which he
approves the visas for the 9/11
hijackers.
and uh then he comes back as the deputy
executive director of the whole CIA
right so it's director deputy director
executive director and then the deputy
directors for operations intelligence
science technology administration and
they're they're dotted lines so he's now
one of the five most senior people in
the entire CIA he does that for a couple
of years and then becomes the executive
director by the time I get promoted to
be the morning briefer for the director
and executive assistant. I'm throwing
all these stupid terms out. Executive
assistant to the deputy director for
operations. I'm meeting with Brennan
every single day. So, we're we're doing
the Iraq war. We're doing terrorism and
al-Qaeda and all this stuff.
He didn't like me and I didn't like him.
And then when I became the quote unquote
human rights guy, that just kind of
sealed it for me. But I didn't care cuz
I didn't respect him. Anyhow, I I will
say that that Jim Pavitt, the deputy
deputy director for operations,
legendary officer and a really great
guy. He hated Brennan more than I did.
And he used to mock Brennan because
Brennan at the time was telling
everybody, "I want to head my own
agency. I want to head my own agency."
and they finally put him in charge of
this thing that was temporarily called
the TTICK, the transnational terrorism
information center. It later became the
National Counterterrorism Center. Um,
and they sort sort of shunted him off
there and it was a nothing analytic
organization, not even in the in the
headquarters building. It was out one of
the outlying buildings and then he kind
of went away. But where he really did
write for himself is in 2007 there was
this there was this wave of retirements,
right? We're we're enough now beyond 911
that people can begin to retire. So this
huge wave of senior level retirements in
'07 and then once these guys retired
half of them went to the McCain campaign
and half of them went to the Hillary
Clinton campaign and John Brennan was
literally the only one who went to the
Obama campaign
>> and he saved himself.
>> Wow. So
how did you wind up going to prison?
Well, as soon as Barack Obama became
president, John Brennan decided he was
going to have my head. And so he asked
uh Holder to have the FBI um grab me.
And I'll tell you what, they they knew
they didn't have a case. So there's a
little bit of background. Um from 2009
to the end of 2011, I was the senior
investigator on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee working for John
Kerry. It was a terrible job. Kerry
said, "Oh, I want you to do this and do
that and we're going to investigate this
and investigate that." And then he would
kill all the investigations because he
wanted to be Secretary of State and he
didn't want to piss anybody at the White
House off.
So, I can't talk about how Afghanistan
produces 93% of the world's heroin and
all of it is because the CIA said they
could. I can't talk about the dashyle
massacre where 2,000 Taliban soldiers
were suffocated to death in container
trucks because the CIA didn't punch
holes for them to breathe in the in the
containers. Can't talk about any of that
stuff because you want to be the
Secretary of State. So, I left in 2011.
And right before I left,
I got a call from a Japanese diplomat.
And this is one of the things that I I
loved about that job is this constant
engagement with foreign diplomats, like
who's doing what and what do you think
about Israel? What do you think about
China? What do you think about what's
going on in, you know, Mexico or Cuba or
whatever? And um I get a call from this
Japanese diplomat and he invites me to
lunch. I said, great. We meet at a place
uh on Capitol Hill and um I I remember
that lunch very well. I remember we
talked about Israeli elections. We
talked about Turkish elections and we
talked about the Arab-Israeli peace
process. And at the end of the lunch, he
says to me, and I should add, his
English was so bad that we had to do the
lunch in Arabic.
So, he said, "What's next for you?" And
I said, "Well, I think I'm going to
resign soon. I promised Senator Kerry
I'd give him two years. It's been two
and a half. I have five kids, and I
really need to make some money and put
my kids through college." And he goes,
"No,
don't do that. If you give me
information, I can give you money."
And I said, "What the [__] is wrong with
you? You have any idea how many times
I've made that pitch? Shame on you cold
pitching me like that?" And I got up
indignantly and I walked out. And I
walked and I mean directly without
stopping to the office of the Senate
Security Officer. And I I knocked on the
door. I went in. And I said, "Hey, I was
just pitched by a foreign intelligence
officer." And he goes, "Was it that damn
Russian again?" And I said, "No, it was
Japanese." He goes, "Japanese?" I said,
"I know, right?" He goes, "Well, no.
Sometimes they poke around looking for
trade information." I said, "This didn't
have anything to do with trade
information." I don't think I don't
know. We didn't even get that far. He
said, "Okay, do me a favor." He said,
"I've got a standalone computer here
that's not connected to the internet.
write it up as a memo and I'm gonna
courier it over to the FBI. So I sat
there and I wrote the whole thing
blowby-blow.
The next day he calls me and he says,
"Two FBI agents are going to come up and
talk to you." And I said, "Okay." So
they come up. I recount the whole the
whole lunch and they said, "All right,
here's what we want you to do. We want
you to call him back, invite him to
lunch, and then try to get him to tell
you exactly what information he wants
and how much he's willing to pay for
it." And I said, because I'm a patriot,
I said, 'You want me to wear a wire? And
they said, 'N no, we're going to be at
the next table. We're going to listen to
everything. I said, 'But he only speaks
Arabic. That's okay. We got a guy who
speaks Arabic. Don't worry. I said, all
right. So, I call him. I invite him to
lunch. We go to lunch, do the whole
thing. But before the lunch, right
before the lunch, they called and they
said, "Operation came up. Just write us
another another memo. Do the lunch and
write us another memo." I said, "Fine."
So I write another memo. They asked me
to do it a third time, a fourth time,
and a fifth time. The fifth time, he
says to me, "I have great news." He
said, "I got my dream job. I've been
promoted and I'm going to be the deputy
ambassador in Cairo." And I said,
"Congratulations." I shook his hand,
never saw him again.
So I've written all this to the FBI. One
day in January of 2012, so I've been out
of the Senate for about 9 months,
the FBI calls and I look at my cell
phone, it says Federal Bureau of
Investigation. I was like, I wonder what
that's all about. So I answer and they
said, hey, you remember that thing you
helped us out with a year ago. And I
said, yeah. And they said, we've got a
similar situation and we need your help.
And again, because I'm a patriot, I
said, anything for the FBI. I kick
myself now for saying it. I said,
"Anything for the FBI. What do you want
me to do?" They said, "Come down to the
Washington field office Thursday morning
at 10:00." I said, "Done."
I go down there the next Thursday
and uh they're waiting for me at the
entrance. Which I thought was odd. And
we go up to a conference room and they
said, "We're both cleared. Si, TK,
gamma." And then there were two
compartments above top secret that I was
cleared for that they said they were
cleared for. And so if the if the
conversation necessitated it, we could
go into that area.
So they said, "Well, before before we
start, just wanted to ask you, just read
your book. It was great. I loved it.
Hey, what about this that you said in
your book?" And I was like, "Yeah, okay.
Yeah, it was a cool story. What about
this other thing?" Yeah, I had fun. I
said, "It was kind of hard. You know, it
took me nine months to write the book.
22 months to get it cleared." "Oh, yeah,
you got it cleared." "Yeah, of course I
got it cleared." "2 months it took me to
get it cleared." I'm thinking, "What an
odd question."
Then they start asking me about
something called the Sam Adams Project.
And I said, "I'm sorry, I don't know
what that means."
And then the bad cop of the two says,
"We know you've been giving information
to the Guantanamo defense attorneys." I
said, 'What are you talking about?
And then I said, "Wait a minute. Are you
investigating me?"
And they said, "Yeah, and we're raiding
your house right now as we speak." And I
said, "Thank God." I said, "I want to
speak to my attorney right now." That
was the only reason that they didn't
arrest me. And one of the things that I
learned, and this became painfully
evident when they started arresting
January 6 people, was the FBI in
Washington likes to make its arrests on
Thursdays
because there are no federal
arraignments on Friday. So, you're in
the DC jail Thursday night, Friday
night, Saturday night, Sunday night
getting the [__] beaten out of you. And
then they arraign you on Monday. and
then you want to make a deal just so you
don't ever have to go inside that prison
again. But because I asked to see my
attorney, they let me go. So I called
the attorney as soon as I I got out of
the office. Actually, when I was walking
out,
one of them went over to I didn't know
it at the time, but it was Peter Stro.
And Peter Stro says, "Tell me he
implicated himself."
And the guy said, "Not really. No, we
have to let him go. And so I grabbed my
cell phone and I left. Went to the
attorney's office. They had already
called my attorney and said they were
charging me with espionage. I hadn't
committed espionage. They knew I hadn't
committed espionage. And in fact, since
then, I'm fast forwarding a lot. Three
FBI agents have reached out to me, well,
two to my attorneys. One reached out to
me directly to apologize saying that
this came from the top. They thought it
was a BS case. they were sorry they were
involved, but there was nothing they
could do. One guy reached out to me
through eBay of all things, like to try
to cover up the uh the trail. He's like,
"Listen, I've I've been losing sleep
over this for, excuse me, for the last
13 years. I just wanted to tell you how
sorry I am blah blah blah." It's like,
"Well, I hope you feel better. My whole
life fell apart, but I'm glad you got
that off your chest." So um it became a
matter of of just survival after that.
You know you have to take it seriously.
I was facing 45 years in prison and then
when the justice department um made a a
request for a profer meeting. The profer
meeting is they'll give you a little
idea of what they have against you and
then they make an offer. You can take it
or leave it. And they offered me 45
years. And I said, "I'm not doing 45
minutes.
I didn't do anything wrong." And this
woman, she became deputy attorney
general uh for the criminal division
under Biden. She said, "Take this deal,
Mr. Kiryaku, and you may live to meet
your grandchildren."
>> Oh my god. Oh, it was I went home that
night and
I went I'm I'm ashamed to even say it.
That night we we put the kids to bed and
my wife and I were watching TV and she
said, "Come on, let's go to bed." I
said, "I can't sleep. I There's no way
I'm going to be able to sleep." And she
said, "No, come on. Let's go to bed."
She knew
I was going to go down into the garage,
turn the car on, and just lay across the
back seat. And she said, "No, come on.
you need to try to get some sleep. And
she saved me that night, but 45 years.
And so
they waited 10 months before they were
even willing to engage in a
conversation. And then they offered 10
years on a Monday. On Wednesday, they
offered eight. And on Friday, they
offered five. My lead attorney was this
legendary guy named Plato Cacheras.
And Plato said, "You know, I've been a
criminal defense attorney in this city
for 52 years, and this is the first time
I've ever seen them come down in time."
He said, "Usually they offer you 10, you
say no, the next offer is 15, then the
next offer is 20." I said, "Why are they
coming down in time?" He said, "Because
they have a [__] case and they know it's
[__] and that's why we're going to go to
trial and we're going to win this
thing." I said, "Great." Well,
they they they stayed at five and then
they came back and they said three and a
half. And I said, "I'm going to trial.
I'm going to win this thing." Turned out
at the time my best friend, his wife had
an uncle who was OJ Simpson's jury
consultant. And she called him for me
and she said, "Hey, my friend John, he's
in this situation. He's like, "Yeah, I
read about this in the papers. He could
use your help." He came up, didn't
charge me a scent. He came up to
Washington. We got him a security
clearance and uh which was another
thing. We asked for a security clearance
and then uh the the uh Justice
Department called and said the White
House said Kuryaku's attorneys have
enough security clearances. And I said,
who at the White House said we have
enough security clearances? Well, they
had to tell us that it was John Brennan.
No more attorneys for Kuryaku. Fisher
cut bait. We're like, it's not up to
John Brennan to decide if I have enough
attorneys. You They have an unlimited
number of attorneys, an unlimited
budget. As it turned out, they spent $6
million to put me in prison. Was society
really better off spending $6 million to
put me in a low security prison for for
23 months?
So
in the end they said best and final
offer
30 months you do 23.
Well I was only the second American who
had ever been charged with this crime of
um violating the Intelligence Identities
Protection Act of 1982.
Uh the only other person that was
charged with it was a woman named Sharon
Screenage. She was a CIA secretary in
Ghana in the 80s and she was having an
affair with a member of Ghana's
intelligence service. And in the course
of pillow talk, she revealed the names
of all of the CIA officers in the
station and the names of the sources
they were running. And so the Ganaans
executed these guys.
>> Oh my god.
>> She got nine months in prison. Nine
months. and they offer me 45 years
for blowing the whistle on the torture
program. So my wife and I stayed up all
night, literally all night, and because
Sharon Scranage had taken a plea, there
was literally no case law. So what we
found, we found several things. Um, we
found several articles from the Harvard
Law Review saying this law is
unconstitutional.
It it violates the First Amendment and
it is prior restraint. right? Like it
tells you in advance, you can't say X,
Y, and Z,
but because there was no case law, you
can't you couldn't challenge it in
court. And I said, "Well, can't we just
appeal appeal the charge and maybe, you
know, all the way up to the Supreme
Court?" And they said, "Yeah, we can do
that post conviction
and then you're going to be 45 years
waiting and hoping that the Supreme
Court does the right thing. We can't do
that."
So, um,
so I decided by 6:00 a.m. I'm going to
turn it down. I believed in my heart I
hadn't done anything right. This was
political. It was a vendetta by John
Brennan. And Obama, by all accounts, I
had friends of course who were still
working at the agency and working at the
uh at the CIA or at the White House. And
they said that Obama had this Nixonian
obsession with national security leaks.
And it's because that came from Brennan.
Obama was a senator for two years. He
didn't have any experience doing
anything. So he did what John Brennan
told him to do. And Brennan said, "You
got to crack down on these leaks. They
do nothing but embarrass us. So, um, I
decided I'm going to turn it down. 6:00
a.m. I send an email to my attorneys. I
had 11 attorneys.
I was paying half of them, five of them.
And, um, and then one of them writes
back and says, "Put on a pot of coffee.
We'll be at the house by 7." So, they
come to my house. The the four main ones
came to the house. Plato was the first
one in. I imagine this like 80year-old
6'2, 280 lb mean old man. He comes in
and I said, "Good morning, Plato." And
he said, "You stupid son of a [__]
Take the deal." Like that. I said, "Take
the deal? You're the one that told me
not to take the deal. You're the one who
told me we're going to go to trial and
win this thing." And he says, "I only
told you that to keep your spirits up."
>> Oh god. And then the second one, his
partner Bob Trout, a sweet
gentleman, a southern gentleman, he
says, "If you were my own brother, I
would beg you to take this deal."
And I'm like, "Now, what do I do?" And
then the third,
who is the guy Mark McDougall, one of
the best attorneys I've ever encountered
in my life. and and the one that I liked
and respected the most out of all of
them. I liked all of them and respected
all of them, but but I felt a connection
to this guy. He pulls me aside. He was a
little bit angry and he said, "You know
what your problem is? Your problem is
you think this is about justice and it's
not about justice. It's about mitigating
damage. Take the deal."
And I looked at my wife, she's just
like, "What are we going to do?" So, I
took the deal
and I got two and a half years in prison
and they made me do every single day of
it. In fact, we went to sentencing and
um this was in the Eastern District of
Virginia, the the espionage court. And
the reason why we didn't go to trial in
the end was that the the OJ Simpson uh
jury consultant said, "If we were if we
were in any other district in America, I
would say, "Let's go for it. We're going
to win this thing." But the Eastern
District of Virginia, your entire jury
is going to be people from the CIA, from
the FBI, from DoD, from intelligence
community contractors. He said, "Buddy,
you don't have a prayer. Take the deal.
Yeah,
>> it was bad.
>> Wow.
>> So, at sentencing, my attorney said,
"Your honor, we request that Mr. Kuryaku
be sent to a minimum security work
camp." She says, "Any objection from the
justice department?" They said, "No
objection." She goes, "Okay, minimum
security work camp. No bars on the
windows, no locks on the doors. You're
free to come and go as you please.
You're just on your honor, not to
abscond."
And most of the guys work. There's a
little college in town. You go sweep the
floors or whatever.
So, I got to the prison
three months later and uh it's it's
weird the system that we have, Joe. You
just you walk up and you knock on the
door and you say, "Hi, I'm I'm John
Kiraak. I'm here to turn myself in.
That's all you do." And your friends and
family just drive away. And so they
said, "Yeah, uh you got to go across the
street to the actual prison. They'll
process you and then they just bring you
back over here." And I said, "Okay."
Okay. So, I go across the street and uh
I said, "I'm I'm John Kuryako. I'm here
to turn myself in." And uh and the guy
takes me by the arm. We go outside and
we start walking around to the back of
the prison. And I said, "No, no, I'm
supposed to be at the at the minimum
security camp across the street." And
the guy laughs at me and he goes, "Not
according to my paperwork. You're not."
And I was like, "Oh my god, take it
easy." We later learned
Brennan was so angry at the shortness of
my sentence that he told them, "Make it
as difficult as possible."
So, I told myself, "Take it easy. If you
make any ruckus, they're going to put
you in solitary. Don't say a word." So,
I didn't say a word. It took him about
40 minutes to process me. Then, they
walked me to my cell. The only thing the
cop said to me, he says, "A word of
advice, buddy. If anybody comes into
your cell uninvited, that's an act of
aggression." And I said, "Great. Thanks.
I'm here 40 minutes and now I'm going to
get my ass kicked. I appreciate it." And
then I started that whole odyssey.
>> And so what kind of prison were you in?
I was in
FCI, the Federal Correctional
Institution at Lorettto, Pennsylvania,
which is a low security prison, but it's
called a low medium, and then there's a
high medium. So, this was low medium. It
took me 5 days to get access to a phone.
And I called Mark McDougall, the the
attorney that I liked so much, and I
said, "Mark, they put me in the actual
prison with the pedophiles and the mafia
dons and the drug kingpins." I said,
'What do I do?' He says, 'Oh my god.
Well, he said, 'We could file a motion,
but it'll be two years before we get a
hearing and you'll be home by then. He
said, "Buddy, I'm sorry. You're going to
have to tough it out."
And so that's what I did. Wow.
So, you have this long career working
for the government. They put you away.
And what is it like for you
to feel so betrayed
and to get out
and what what do what do what do you do
when you get out?
>> I was frankly very angry when I got out.
I didn't realize how angry I was. Like
people would mention it to me like maybe
you should talk to somebody. Maybe you
should, you know, think about a
pharmaceutical option. And I was like
why? There's nothing wrong with me.
Yeah. I'm ready to fight and march and,
you know, raise my fist against the
Obama administration.
And so, um, I was wrong, of course. I
was I was so angry that that
it it wasn't even healthy for the people
around me. But I'll tell you the Joe,
the hardest thing is you think you can
just step back into your life again and
you'll never be able to step back into
your life. So I thought, okay, well, I'm
I'm highly educated. I have a bachelor's
degree in Middle Eastern studies. I have
a master's degree in legislative uh
policy analysis. I finished my PhD case
uh uh classwork in uh in international
affairs.
I got rejected by McDonald's, by
Safeway, by Target, by Uber. We don't
hire uh felons.
I mean, I couldn't get a job anywhere.
>> And you're broke.
>> And I was broke. Bankrupt.
>> Mhm.
>> So, you couldn't even get a job driving
for Uber? No.
>> Uber turned me down.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. It's crazy. It's crazy. But you
know what, though?
>> What did you do? Well, I was confident
that I was right and they were wrong.
And my my wife,
unfortunately, she's now my ex-wife, but
she gave me some of the best advice
anybody ever gave me. She said, "You
have to keep telling your side of the
story because eventually they're going
to move on to their next victim. And if
you keep talking, your side of the story
is going to be the side of record and
eventually the truth is going to come
out. And sure enough, six weeks before
um before I uh was released from prison,
I called her. I was I was allowed to
call her every other day for 15 minutes.
So I called her and I said, "How was
your day?" And she said, "It was great."
And I said, "Really great? Why was why
was it so great?" And she said, "Because
the Senate torture report was released
today and it proved that everything you
said was true." And I said, "That is
great." And she said, "John McCain stood
up on the floor of the Senate and said,
"If it weren't for John Kuryaku, the
American people would never have had any
idea what the CIA was doing in their
name." And so when I got home, God bless
him, I the one of the first calls I
received was from John McCain's chief of
staff. And he said, "Senator McCain
says, "Welcome home." and he wants to
know what he can do to be helpful.
And I said, "Oh my god." I said, "Tell
him." I said, "Thank you." I liked
McCain very much from when I was working
on Carrie's staff. Carrie was a little
jealous of McCain. Um, and McCain would
go out of his way to shake my hand and
say hi. Carrie said to me one time, "Why
don't you two get a room or something?"
And I said, "No." I said, "It's we have
this connection over torture." I said,
"Main takes me seriously and I take him
seriously." And so when I when I spoke
to McCain, I said, "These damn Obama
people, they confiscated my pension and
I'm going to have to work until the day
I die. They drove me into bankruptcy and
took my pension."
So
he came up with this idea. It was a
great idea to write an amendment. My
attorney wrote this amendment to the
National Defense Authorization Act of
2016, and it said that every American
convicted of violating the Intelligence
Identities Protection Act between
October 1st and October 31st, 2012 shall
hereby have his pension reinstated. So,
of course, I'm the only person in the
world that that refers to. So he he
said, "Nobody reads these 1500page
bills. We're going to slip it in there."
And he said, "I'm going to be on the
conference committee. We'll get it taken
care of." And then he got sick. He got a
brain tumor and he wasn't named to the
conference committee. And so they pulled
it back out again. And then he died. And
so here I am 10 years later.
The only way that this can be made right
is with a presidential pardon. And
that's what I've been working on for
years now.
>> So, what did what did you do for money?
>> I was offered a job at a small think
tank in Washington called the Institute
for Policy Studies, and they said,
"We'll give you an office, but you're
going to have to raise your own salary."
And so, it was just like constant
GoFundMes. I did that for a year. I made
$20,000 for the year. And I said, I
can't do this. It's untenable.
And so I just decided, look, no company
is going to hire me, right? I can't go
back into government again. And so I'm
going to have to work for myself. So I I
had already written my first book, made
number number five on the New York Times
bestsellers list. My second book, I
wrote Longhand from prison. I ended up
winning two literary awards for that
book. book. I won the the pen first
amendment award which along with the pen
falner the Pulitzer and the Edgar Allen
Poe is one of the big four and then I
won the forward reviews memoir of the
year that year I thought I'm going to
keep writing books I started writing a
column that ended up being syndicated
through the consortium for independent
journalism so it's like 200 small town
papers around the country and um you
know a little bit here a little bit
there consulting and And the Greek
government, I'm I happen to be Greek
American, my grandparents all came from
the island of roads.
As soon as I was arrested, like within a
day, the Greek ambassador called me and
he said, "What can we do to be helpful?"
And I said, "You can give me
citizenship."
And man, like that, I got Greek
citizenship. And so as soon as I got out
of prison, the Greek government hired me
to help them write a new whistleblower
protection law. And then they passed it
quickly. The parliament passed it into
law and then the European Union adopted
it. So I went to Brussels and I
testified there and then they repackaged
it. Now it's the law of the land in all
of the European Union. And then people
in the states began taking me more
seriously. I started doing some paid
speaking gigs. I got hired as an adjunct
professor at a couple of different
universities. And then, you know, after
a while you can make an okay living. I'm
still gonna have to work until the day I
die because I have literally nothing
saved. It all went to the attorneys
and uh you know hope for the best. I
will say that I was a third generation
Democrat. I left the Democratic party
ages ago. Um
John Brennan and Barack Obama's actions
convinced me that I had done the right
thing. And now I have found common cause
with
populist Republicans.
You know, you don't have to agree on
every issue, right? You don't have to
like everybody and everything that they
believe in and everything they stand
for.
But I've struck up a a great friendship,
for example, with Tucker Carlson.
Sweetest guy in the world and a great
supporter of mine. and Judge Npalitano.
It's a love fest every time that the two
of us get together. And I realized that,
you know, this thing this this political
system we have, it's antiquated. It
doesn't work. You have to you have to
engage with the individual. Like I I
never thought that I would be agreeing
with Marjorie Taylor Green on some of
these these civil liberties issues,
right? or Thomas Massie or Bernie
Sanders for that matter. But I've
realized that now I've I've got to I've
got to stand up for what's right, not
what the DNC happens to think what's
right or some politician that I used to,
you know, think I had respect for thinks
is right.
A couple of nights before I left for
prison,
the director, the former director of the
CIA's counterterrorism center, who later
became the deputy director for
operations and was very close to
Brennan. He was the DDO when Brennan was
the director of the CIA. He tweeted at
me and he said, "Don't drop the soap."
with a a laughing emoji.
I gave myself a couple hours to cool
off. And then I texted back and I said,
"Jose, I'm on the right side of history
and you are not."
And that gave me such peace.
I knew I could go to prison, survive
this just fine, and come out and still
make an impact. And, you know, knock on
wood, that's how it's worked out.
It's it's ugly, you know, and you get to
prison.
One of my attorneys said, "Hey, I've had
I've collected a a list of 600 emails,
email addresses from people who want to
know how you're doing. Once you get
there, once you get comfortable, just
send me a a letter and I'll send it
around to these people." I said, "Okay,
great." It took me you you don't realize
it but you're in shock for the first
week or two and then I started settling
into the routine
and it was kind of I mean it was pretty
screwed up that first day
20 minutes after the cop warned me about
people coming into my room unannounced.
These two guys just walk in boldly just
walk in. I jump up. I put my fist up. I
go, "What do you want?" One of them has
a swastika on his neck. It took up his
entire neck. It came up onto his face.
The other one had [__] you tattooed on
his eyelids. So I go, "What do you
want?" And and the the swastika guy
says, "You the new guy?" I said, "Yeah."
So he says, "You a fag?" I said, "No,
I'm not a fag." He said, "You a rat?" I
said, "No, I didn't have anybody else in
my case. I'm not a rat." And he says,
"You a cho?" I go, "I don't know what
that word means." He goes, "Chomo, child
molester." I said, 'N no, I'm not a
child molester. And he goes, "Okay, you
could sit with the Aryans in the
cafeteria." And I was like, "Oh,
I guess I'm with the Aryans now."
>> Oh, grand.
Yeah. And then the guy across the hall
from me was the boss of the Banano
family. And uh one day he said to me, I
I I would get the New York Times and and
he would get the New York Post and we
would trade at the end of each day. He
asked me, "Let me ask you something." He
says, "Why you sit with those Nazi
retards in the cafeteria?" I said, 'I
don't know, Pete. My my first day here,
they told me to sit with them. He goes,
"From today, you're with the Italians."
And I said, "Awesome." And they became
my closest friends. I mean, I got a book
out of it. They were absolutely
wonderful,
honorable,
honest,
fun,
the smallest so-called gang in the
prison, but the one that commanded the
most respect. And once word was out that
I was with the Italians, it was hands
off. And it was thanks to one guy, shout
out to Mark Lanzelotti. Mark was from
Philly and he saw in the New York Times
I was going to be assigned to that
prison on a Sunday. I was assigned on
Thursday and he took it upon himself to
go to every one of the Italians to say
there's a CIA guy coming here. He's not
an FBI agent. The FBI are cops and rats.
The CIA protected us from the Muslims.
And they're like, "Oh, okay." And so it
was, you know, welcome.
No problems.
God, it has to be insanely stressful.
>> It was like It was like living in the
Twilight Zone. The stress the stress
will kill you. It's incredible. You see
people break down all the time. They
just lose it. And it's not like you're
going to, you know, be taken out to some
medical unit someplace. You go to
solitary and you can live or die down in
there. Yeah. Oh, so I was telling you,
so I I I waited about 6 weeks before I
was comfortable enough to to write a a
letter. So I I very arrogantly called it
letter from Lorettto because I had such
respect for Martin Luther King's letter
from Birmingham jail. And so I said two
things in this. I mean I talked about
the food and I talked about the Italians
and but I said two things. I said um
there was this one guard who was really
abusive. She was absolutely horrible.
You know that phrase rode hard and put
away wet. That was this that was this
woman all tatted out from you know the
neck down and just a nasty mean old
awful awful person. So I was walking
through the hall one day and she said
hey are you that [__] whose name
I can't pronounce at mail call and I go
Kiraku
just like it's spelled. She goes how
about if I call you [__]
like that. So I said classy and I walked
away.
Somebody later told me they're not
allowed to talk to us that way. That's a
violation of, you know, code 11.8
subsection, you know, B, whatever. So I
wrote it in the um in the letter. And I
was just like, you know, life in prison.
What am I going to do? This this woman
swears at me. There's nothing I can do.
The other thing was more important.
I had been there three days and one of
my cellmates was an Australian arsonist
and he said, "Let me walk you around and
introduce you to the guys." I said,
"Okay." We go to this other housing unit
and there's a little tiny guy there who
didn't speak any English and he said,
"This is I forget what his name is,
Ahmed or something. He's from Iraq." And
I said,
"It's very nice to meet you." And he
says, "Ah,
I'm in Iraq." I said, 'Yeah, great.
You're from Iraq. I was in Iraq. It's
very nice to meet you. Turns out he was
there on a terrorism charge. He was the
imam of some mosque in New York and
somebody was trying to sell a Stinger
missile to somebody and he translated
the the document, the bill of sale and
he got wrapped up in this terrorism
case. So, I get called into the
lieutenant's office the next day and
usually if you're being called into the
lieutenant's office, you're going
straight to solitary.
So I hear my name, Kuryaku, Lieutenant's
office. Immediately, always with
immediately. And they know you can't do
it immediately because all the doors are
locked. So I wait for a 10-minute move
period. The the bells ring and I go to
the lieutenant's office. I said, "You
wanted to see me." And they have the
this guy's picture on a on a computer
screen. You know this guy? I said, "I
don't know him. I met him yesterday.
What'd you say to him?"
I said, I said, "Nice to meet you." What
did he say to you? He said, "Nice to
meet you, too." "Oh, yeah. Well, after
you walked out, he called a number in
Pakistan and they told him to kill you."
I said, "Get the [__] out of here. I
could kill this guy with my thumb." "Oh,
no, no, don't do that. We've been
looking for a reason to to transfer him
out." I'm like, "Okay." So, every time I
see this guy, I give him the stink eye,
right? And then he gives me the stink
eye back. But then the more I thought
about it, the more I thought that
doesn't make any sense. He's Kurdish. He
only speaks Arabic and Kurdish. Why
would he call a number in Pakistan when
they don't speak Arabic in Pakistan?
That just didn't make sense. So I saw
him in the yard and I went up to him and
he got kind of scared like he was going
to try to defend himself. And I had, you
know, six inches and 100 pounds on this
guy. So I said I said, "Wait a minute. I
just want to ask you a question.
Did the cops say anything to you about
me? And he said, "Yeah." I said, "What
did they say to you?" And he said, "They
told me that after we met, you called a
number in Washington and they told you
to kill me." And I said, "Oh, they did,
did they?" So, I went back to the law
library and I looked this up and this
was a class D felony. It was conspiring
to commit violence in a federal
facility. It's punishable by up to 5
years in prison. So, I wrote it in my
letter and I sent it to my attorney and
I didn't give it a second thought. I
didn't know my attorney was friends with
Ariana Huffington who then put it on
Huffington Post with this banner
headline.
Millions of hits. The next thing I know,
Jake Tapper drives to the prison to
interview me and it's in I mean, it's
everywhere from from CNN to Playboy to
The Economist and and Time Magazine.
when Time magazine was a thing and NPR
is calling the prison to interview me
and the next thing I know I'm called to
the warden's office. Well, that's in an
offlimits part of the facility. So, the
warden calls me in. He's like, I'm going
to send you to solitary right now. And I
thought, you know, is now the time to be
to be humble before the warden or should
I stake my claim? And I said, "Warden,
with all due respect,
I've gone nose tonose with al-Qaeda,
with Hezbollah, with the Iranians, and
you want me to be afraid of you?
Give me some credit." He said, "Yeah,
we'll see what you say when you've spent
some time in solitary." I said, "I've
lived in Yemen in Pakistan.
I'm not afraid of your Lorettto,
Pennsylvania solitary.
Besides, I said, go ahead and send me to
solitary. CNN's going to be waiting for
you next to your car in the parking lot.
And I just looked at him. I never went
to solitary. Not for a minute.
>> Wow.
Jeez.
So, they're just trying to set you guys
up.
>> Mhm. trying to get you guys at each
other's throat and hopefully one of you
will do something.
>> They did it one other time. My one of my
attorneys
>> Do you know who orchestrated that?
>> No.
>> It was the warden himself.
>> No, I don't think he was smart enough. I
don't think he cared enough. It had to
come from the agency.
>> Oh my god.
>> There was one other incident, too. Um,
I lived in the same block of cells with
a with an Afghan-American pharmacist who
had an oxy problem. Nice guy. And he
came up to me one day and he said, "Hey,
um, the spokesman for the Taliban is
here now and he wants to meet you." I
said, "The spokesman for the Taliban?" I
said, "Are you talking about that case
in New Jersey?" And he said, "Yeah." I
said, "I don't have anything to say to
the spokesman of the Taliban. I don't
want to meet him." and he said, 'Oh,
okay. I'll tell him. So, I'm out in the
yard one day and my attorney had warned
me they're they're upset at the
shortness of your sentence, so be very
careful. They're going to try to set you
up and add years on. So, I'm out in the
yard and here comes this guy with a
beard down to his waist and he's got his
hand out to shake my hand. And I put my
hands up so as not to touch him. And I
look just past him and there's a guard
in the woods outside the thing with a
long distance camera lens and he's going
click click click click click click
click click click click click and I said
don't you even think about touching me
and he said oh come on man come on we
have a lot in common. I said we have
nothing in common. I spent half my
career trying to kill people like you. I
said get away from me. Don't touch me or
you're going to end up unconscious on
the ground. and he walked away and then
he got transferred out. And I said,
"Isn't it interesting that the spokesman
for the Taliban was sent to our prison
and was only here for 4 days? Isn't that
interesting?" And then they just gave
up.
>> Wow.
>> Mhm.
This kind of stuff is so hard to
believe.
>> It's America. You don't want to believe
this about America.
>> You want to believe we're the good guys.
>> Yeah. And you want to believe that we
would never turn on our own like that
over something that's just
>> Yeah. But they do.
>> But the crazy thing is it's like the CIA
torture program wasn't even effective.
>> No, that's the thing. It wasn't even
effective. But you know what though,
Joe? When these guys die, and they've
started to die, in their obituaries,
it's going to say that they were among
the creators of the CIA's torture
program. And so they have a vested
interest in repeating this lie over and
over and over again that it was the
right thing to do.
>> What I don't understand is wouldn't they
want to be effective?
>> You would think
>> that I mean that's
>> if they were clear-headed. Yes. That's
the only thing that makes the least
sense to me. Like I
idealistically I like to think of the
people that are in charge of the CIA of
having a very important role in national
security.
>> And if you're in a position where you
have a very important role in national
security, it's
it's imperative to do what is most
effective.
And if torture is not most effective,
>> then don't do it. Then you would abandon
torture and use those coercion tactics
that the other guy was using.
>> Yeah, that's right. And in fact, they
ended up abandoning the torture program.
Yeah. The Mitchell and Jessen took their
$108 million and they retired to Florida
and uh and then subsequent CIA directors
following George Tennant said, "Yeah,
you know, this didn't work. We're not
going to do it anymore."
God.
I mean,
>> I I have to laugh just cuz it's so nuts.
What else can you do?
>> It's beyond nuts. It's disgusting.
And it's just amazing that they could
get away with that.
>> Yeah. And they have.
Nobody's been prosecuted. Nobody.
>> Does Trump know about all this stuff?
>> About my stuff? Yeah.
>> Like, have you ever tried to get a
pardon out of him?
>> I I've tried. Um I Let me rephrase. I am
trying. So, I have a letter that uh that
Ronald Reagan's former deputy attorney
general generously wrote asking the
president to pardon me. Tucker Carlson
signed it. Judge Npalitano signed it.
Doug Diesson, who's a friend of the
president, signed it. Sid Miller, who's
here in in Texas, um has signed it. and
the president's former US attorney in
Utah has signed it. And then and and I
sent it to uh to Ed Martin, the US
pardon attorney. And then other people
have said, "Oh, I would have signed
that." So we have a second letter. Dr.
Phil um has agreed to sign it. Um
there are a couple of other people, high
level people. Ken Higgian, who was the
head of the president's uh transition
team, has signed it. Uh and there are a
couple of others. We had really good
news yesterday from the CIA director,
John Ratcliffe. Um and he said that the
CIA has no objection if the president
were to pardon me. That that's a big
deal.
>> That's great news.
>> We we have also a nice one-s sentence
statement from Tulsi Gabbard saying that
she has no objection to a pardon. So, I
I don't know, man. I'm I'm hoping for
the best. You know what they say in
business school? Hope is not a strategy,
but um
I I genuinely don't know what else to
do.
>> Now, you you're doing all these
conversations. You did the conversation
with Tucker. You did his show. You're
you're now doing my show. You've done a
bunch of other shows. Do you have any
concern that in exposing more of what
has been done to you that it somehow
limits your possibility of being
pardoned because you're exposing so many
people that may still be working there?
I'm told that all of my detractors are
either dead or retired. A friend of mine
from the CIA um called me the other day
to say something very funny that she was
sitting in a uh a mandatory uh security
briefing and she said one of the slides
was just a picture of me and it said the
insider threat
>> underneath and she said everybody
started to boo and the instructor said
why why are you booing and one of the
guys said he's not an insider threat
he's a whistleblower and she said in the
next running of the class my picture was
removed. So I won. I won and John
Brennan lost. That's really what it's
come down to.
>> It's so hard to hear these stories.
>> It's terrible.
>> It's so hard to imagine that
>> our government could be so disgusting.
>> Oh my god. I wouldn't wish this on my
worst enemy. Truly, I wouldn't wish it
on anybody. And you know, think of it
this way also at the working level.
These FBI agents don't get promoted by
not arresting you,
>> right?
>> The the assistant US attorneys don't get
promoted by not prosecuting you or by
giving you a short sentence.
>> Right.
>> Right. They all see themselves as, you
know, having the corner office at the
law firm someday or running for Congress
or for governor
>> and they're going to make that career on
your back.
>> That's the problem, right? because
there's a lot of cases where people are
setting people up and you know I was
talking to a friend of mine about this
one case where there was a I'm sure you
remember there was a 19-year-old um I
think he was probably at the very least
intellectually challenged guy and they
tricked him into uh they radicalized
him, gave him a fake bomb, gave him a
cell phone. Do you know the story?
>> Exactly what you're talking about.
>> And then swept in and and got him. and
he wasn't planning on doing anything.
No,
>> it was they talked him into doing the
whole thing. He wasn't a bright person
>> and they got a arrest because of that.
So, it it adds to their career.
>> That's it.
>> Like when when I was having a
conversation about this, we brought up
the uh the governor that they were
planning on kidnapping. Governor
>> Whitmer.
>> Yeah.
>> U Michigan.
>> Yeah. And that 12 of the 14 people were
working with the FBI.
>> Yeah. which is just
>> listen there are well doumented cases
where the FBI infiltrates a group and
they go to a meeting and literally
everybody in the meeting is an FBI
agent. Like what is that? Is this a
joke?
>> This is what the American taxpayers
money goes for. Do you remember have you
heard of the Route 82 bridge plot in
Cleveland?
>> No.
>> There are three morons sitting in a bar
getting drunk.
>> Oh, I did hear about this. The other guy
comes in, hey, you know what we should
do? It would be so much fun. Blow up the
road Route 82 bridge. I have some
explosives. And these guys are drunk.
They're like, "Yeah, let's do Route 82
bridge." Well, the guy with the
explosives is an FBI informant. He set
them all up. And they got like 20, 18,
and 15 years in prison. It was the FBI's
idea, not their idea. They're just
sitting in a bar drinking.
>> Well, how about January 6th?
>> How about January 6th?
>> This is the crazy I was trying to
explain to Jim Gaffigan one day. Jim
Gaffkin was talking about what they did
in January 6. I go, "Do you understand
that there were paid people that were
working for the federal government?
There were employees of the federal
government that were on that lawn trying
to convince people to go in." And he was
very incredulous.
He He did He did not believe it. And I
said, "They are Asian provocators that
are that is their job to try to get you
to do something illegal."
>> Exactly. so they can build their careers
by making these arrests.
>> Not just that, but demonize the
president, the former president to a
much larger extent
>> to charge him with insurrection to say
that he was plotting to overthrow the
government.
>> Yeah. And as it turns out, the only one
who was actually plotting to overthrow
the government was John Brennan.
>> How was he plotting to overthrow the
government?
>> In 2015 and 2016 with Russia Gate.
>> Oh, right. Right. You know, I remember
talking to CIA friends of mine saying,
you know, they taught us in training
that you've got to follow the evidence.
And there's no evidence that any of this
happened. I worked with Christopher
Steel on an operation in London
years ago, 26 years ago.
There was this fundamental
misunderstanding of what an operations
officer was supposed to do. an
operations officer goes out and collects
intelligence and then sends it back and
that's it. Then it's up to the analyst
to decide this is great, this is crap,
this is not true, this is a partially
true, whatever. So he goes out there,
talks to whatever low-level terrible
sources he happen to have, writes all
this nonsense down, sends it back, and
they're like, "Look what Donald Trump
did. He hired prostitutes to pee on
Barack Obama's bed. No, he didn't. One
guy made this up and Christopher Steel
wrote it and sent it back. That doesn't
make it fact.
>> Wasn't it funded by the Hillary Clinton?
>> It sure was. Yes, it was.
>> Yeah. Which is equally wild.
>> You made another point. I wanted to
address these January 6 people.
Let's say that some of them
did do whatever, broke the window or
went into the building unauthorized.
Okay, then that's deserving of a smack
on the hand and and a strongly worded
letter and maybe a $1,000 fine. Don't do
that again. 30 years in prison
again. Is society really better off by
locking all these people up and spending
millions and millions of dollars of the
taxpayers's money to do it?
>> Of course not.
>> No, of course not. But it it also just
divides us even further.
>> It does.
>> And it also very much distorted the
narrative with people like Jim Gaffigan
who's a friend of mine who's a very
left-leaning comedian. and he had it in
his mind that these people went and they
al they also have this thing where they
say a cop was murdered,
>> right?
>> That's not true.
>> I hate that
>> they say it over and over again. That's
not true. One cop died after the fact of
a heart attack.
>> It you could say maybe it was because of
the stress of January 6th. Perhaps
>> maybe. Maybe not.
>> Maybe not.
>> Maybe he shouldn't have been a cop.
>> Yeah. I mean, if you can significant
health problems,
>> right? Like that's not normal to just
die of a heart attack because of a very
stressful day.
>> That's but that's it. This idea that
they killed cops that keep that
narrative keeps coming out. It was an
insurrection. They murdered cops. They
broke into the White House. They were
looking for Nancy Pelosi. They were
going to kill her. Like, okay, are you
sure? Because there's a lot of this
story that's [__] Now, it turns out
at one point in time they were saying it
was 20 FBI agents. Now the the latest
number is 270.
>> That's right.
>> Yeah.
>> That's huge.
>> That's a lot of people. That's a lot of
people that are encouraging people to
break in.
>> And there's many instances of these
suspected people that are on camera. A
lot of them wearing face masks. Um
there's one of them where a guy's
removing the broken glass from the
window and encouraging people to go in.
And another guy gets in his face and
goes, "Do not do that." And then he
pushes that guy. [__] you. and the other
guy backs off.
>> Um,
>> how is that not
being investigated as a serious crime?
>> And like that that is a serious
that's a violation of what you're
supposed to be doing in the first place.
If the FBI was on that loan on that
lawn, I would hope what they would be
doing is informing people entering into
this building is a felony. breaking
these windows, getting into this
building is you do not want to do this.
If you want to peacefully protest, do
that. But I'm telling you, this will
[__] with you for the rest of your life
and most likely ruin it.
>> Mhm.
>> I think you're 100% right.
>> That's what I would hope from law
enforcement. I wouldn't hope that they
would be trying to set people up and
from a civil society,
>> right?
>> You know, do we we want to set people up
to go to prison? We want to wreck
families and wreck people's lives. Why
would we want to do that?
>> Also,
what was there? Did they turn down the
idea of bringing in the National Guard?
>> You know, I I really don't understand.
It appears Yes, it it appears that
that's exactly what happened.
>> Also significantly deterred people from
committing these crimes.
>> That's right.
>> That they were encouraged to do. I'll
tell you, if I was at a demonstration
and all of a sudden the National Guard
showed up, I'd say, "Ah, this isn't for
me." Yeah.
>> Yeah. And I think most people would do
that as well.
>> You're right.
>> It's crazy. It's just so gross that
>> Yeah.
>> the our legal system gets used against
political opponents in that way, in such
a devious and just a sinister way. Harry
Truman once famously said, "If you want
a friend in Washington, get a dog."
[Laughter]
>> Yeah. Yeah. God, what a gross business.
It's just sad because I also am a
patriot and I want to think of us as
better than that.
>> Yeah. We're the good guys.
>> And I don't think it's necessarily the
fault of these individuals. I think the
system really sucks. And I think you
work for that system and just like all
these Congress people that wind up
insider trading, everybody else is doing
it. It's the culture. You get wrapped up
in it just like bad cops, you know, you
get assigned to a precinct that's filled
with corrupt cops and you have to do
things to stay with them. They're your
blood brothers and you're all in this
together. And so you wind up doing some
criminal activities that you think are
just everybody does it. This is what we
do.
>> Yep.
>> And you're an FBI agent. Well, we got to
set this guy up. Okay, let's set him up.
This is what we do. Hey, if he doesn't
do it, he's not committing a crime. We
got nothing on him. Okay.
>> And then you just convince him to do it.
And he's a [__] idiot. And so he does
it and he hits that cell phone and now
you're arresting him and he's like,
"What?"
>> Yeah.
>> And he's so dumb he barely knows what
happened.
>> Mhm. And the chances are he can't afford
a decent attorney or he's not notorious
enough and newsworthy enough to to get,
you know, A-list attorneys volunteering
pro bono, right?
>> So, he's stuck with a a public defender
that's going to spend eight hours on the
case and he's going to get screwed in
the end.
>> And there's also the narrative that's
very difficult to shake. So if you get
accused of some sort of a heinous crime,
the narrative for most people that are
casual viewers of that story is that
you're a terrorist. Yeah.
>> Or you're a guy who's going to kidnap
the governor or you're a guy who is an
insurrectionist who's trying to
overthrow the government on January 6th.
And then you watch the footage that they
wouldn't release during the trials and
you see them getting a guided tour, the
guided tour through like the the
security guards are walking them into
the Senate. Like what the [__] What is
this?
>> Like what is and why is no one outraged?
And why is it only one side that's
outraged? God, if I was a a a if I was a
a a Democrat congressman or a senator or
if I was any sort of a politician on the
other side, I'd be like, do you know how
disgusting this is?
>> This is you're you're using this to go
after Donald Trump of all things in
instead of just better political
opposition.
>> Exactly.
And the media are to blame in part as
well.
>> Well, they're bought and paid for.
>> Absolutely.
>> I mean, 100%. The the media in this
country is a complete and total failure.
The the only thing that's real media in
this country are independent
journalists.
>> That's right.
>> And there's a mostly people who worked
for large media corporations and either
were fired or had to leave because their
own ethics and morals and eventually
branched out on their own and now
they're in grave danger.
>> Yeah. you know, and they're worried
about being prosecuted or set up or
killed.
>> Yeah, it's super sketchy because that's
we like to think of ourselves as better.
>> We're this is the shining example for
the rest of the world. This is the
experiment in self-government that the
whole world follows this lead
and when you see that not just tolerated
but standard.
>> Yeah. It hurts.
It really does. I was raised in a family
like you were uh where I was taught that
this was the greatest country on earth
bar none.
>> I still think it is.
>> And I do too. And that's why we have to
weed out
>> the likes of John Brennan.
>> God.
But it seems like there's a lot of
people like that are deeply rooted.
>> Yes, indeed. And this is what you were
talking about too that presidents come
and go, but those people that's the real
power. You know this this term the deep
state. A lot of people that you know
there's a lot of people that don't like
to entertain any kind of conspiracies
because they think it's like a fool's
journey. But you you're really foolish
if you don't believe in conspiracies.
Yeah. Because just how many of them have
to be proven true before you go, maybe I
should reassess my position on these
things?
>> 62 years after the JFK assassination,
we're still learning new information.
>> Yeah.
>> Information that's been kept from us
>> and still being kept. There's still a
lot of it. I mean, they were supposed to
that was the one of the more
disappointing things about this
administration. Like immediately, right
off the jump, we're supposed to get all
the CIA files, all the JFK files. We're
we're supposed to know exactly what
happened to him. We know very little
>> very little new information has been
released that illuminates any aspects of
that case.
>> Yeah. It's a shame.
>> Yeah. It's it's terrible because most
likely at least some part of our
government was involved in assassinating
the president.
>> And no one went to jail.
>> No,
>> nothing happened. And in fact, people
succeeded and thrived after that.
>> Sad truth. Yeah,
>> that's exactly what happened.
>> I mean, it goes back there's so many
cases like I've had conversations with
people that like they, you know, they
don't want to be fools, right? So that's
a lot of the people that don't want to
believe in conspiracies like most of it
can be explained away by incompetence or
coincidence and this and that. Like
that's not even true. It's not even most
of it. It's some things can be explained
away.
>> Some things. I had a a friend at the
agency. He was one of my first bosses
and he had started out in uh in this
like internship program that the agency
had the the ma it was a you had to be
working on a master's degree. But
anyway, his first assignment was in the
counterintelligence center which at the
time was being run by James Angleton.
And um on his first day, the secretary
walked him around and you know this is
what we do over here and this is what we
do over there. And there was this entire
wall of file folders and she said,
"Whatever you do, don't look in those
folders. You're not cleared for that."
Well, he said, "Well, of course, the
very first minute that he's left alone,
he runs and looks in the folders." And
he said every single one of those
folders was on an American citizen and
the CIA is forbidden by law from spying
on Americans.
>> Oh god.
>> Yeah. The crazy thing too in a lot of
people's eyes is the difference between
what they thought of what what the
narrative is of the Obama administration
in terms of like whistleblowers and like
what what the hope was, you know, it was
hope and change, right?
>> Oh, hope and change. And you know the
statistic, the the Espionage Act was
written in 1917 to combat German
saboturs during the First World War.
Between 1917
and 2009,
three Americans were charged with
espionage for speaking to the media.
Under Barack Obama, eight people were
charged with espionage for speaking to
the media. So he was the enemy of
whistleblowers.
>> Not only that, that was part of his
campaign.
>> Yeah.
>> Part of his campaign was protection of
whistleblowers. In fact, it was in the
hope and change website.
>> Yeah. Well, look at the Dash Leyle
massacre that I mentioned earlier. It
was part of his campaign to open an
investigation of Dash Leyle. What
happened was at at Dash Leyle,
Afghanistan on November the 30th and
December the 1st, 2001, 2,000 Taliban
soldiers gave up on Mas, right? And the
Northern Alliance called us and said,
"What do what do we do with all these
guys? We don't have room for them." So
we told them, "Put them in trucks, take
them out to the desert, and just hold
them there until we can divide them up
and send them to smaller jails all
around the country. And if we have to,
we can send some to Pakistan."
But there were no air holes in the
containers. There was no food. There was
no water. And
of the 2,000,
14 survived. And one of the 14 said that
when they opened the trucks in the
desert, the bodies fell out like
sardines from a can. So Barack Obama
said in 2008, if he's elected president,
he's going to investigate this massacre
and get to the bottom of it. And then
there was nothing. So I said to John
Kerry, I said, "Listen, this is part of
the Obama campaign.
Let me go to Afghanistan and investigate
this thing." And so I went and there are
still bones just sticking out of the
sand. There are clothes that have just
been laying there in the desert all
these years. All the bodies are still
there. What's left of them?
>> Really?
>> Yeah. It's it's grizzly.
So I come back and I get a call from a
kind of a prominent human rights
activist and he said he wanted to see me
but it had to be private. So we went to
uh John's Hopkins University. There was
a classroom that wasn't being used. We
met there and he said, "Listen, I have a
witness who was 12 years old at the time
and he was hiding behind a rock and he
saw what happened when they opened the
trucks and the bodies fell out." I said,
"Okay." And he said, "But what's new is
he says that there were two men there
wearing blue jeans and black t-shirts
and they were speaking English." I said,
"Okay, that's all I need." So, I wrote a
letter to the agency and I I asked, you
know, for clarification, were any CIA
personnel on site at the box up or at
the uh at the location where the trucks
were opened? Um, and I had it auto
penned John Kerry, chairman. 6 weeks
later, a colleague comes into my office
and he says, "Hey, you got a response
from the agency to your letter." I said,
"I didn't see any response from the
agency. I just checked my mail an hour
ago." And he said, "They classified it
top secret. It's down in the vault." I
said, "Top secret?" I said, "Well, what
did it say?" And he says, "It says go
[__] yourself."
I said, "Great. That's how they want to
play it." So I went to Carrie and Carrie
says, "Ah, you know,
we're stirring up a hornets's nest here,
and I think we should just let this fade
into history."
I was like, "Again? because you want so
badly to be Secretary of State again.
>> God, what a gross business.
>> It's awful. Hideous.
>> What is it like from for you on the
outside now watching what's going on in
the world?
>> There are some places that I'm
optimistic about. And actually, there
are some developments that may look ugly
on the surface that I'm optimistic
about. First of all, this ceasefire,
we're recording this on, I guess,
today's Thursday, but the ceasefire that
was announced this morning, this is
huge. Huge. And I think this is not a
victory for the Israelis. I think that I
think that it makes Donald Trump
stronger and Benjamin Netanyahu weaker.
Netanyahu's decision to bomb Gutter was
too much.
just too much. It served it could have
served to embarrass the president. What
it ended up doing is it weakened
Netanyahu's position. So that's a
victory for for the White House as far
as I'm concerned.
>> Stop you real quick.
>> Yeah.
>> The correct pronunciation. How did you
say it?
>> Gutter.
>> You said gutter.
>> Uhhuh. It's it's back here. It's called
a kaf.
>> But so I've heard cutter. It's not
cutter. But g you're saying like a g.
>> They use a g sound.
>> Gutter. Other Arabs would call it Qatar
with a like a K.
>> Uh,
>> but in the Gulf dialect, it's way down
here.Qatar.
>> Qatar.
>> Uh-huh.
>> Okay.
>> The other thing is Iran, man. I follow
Iran more closely than anybody I know.
You remember you're you're a little bit
younger than I am, but not much. Um,
when we were kids, we had a terrible
relationship with China. And Richard
Nixon was the most anti-China person
that could possibly have been elected
president. Yet, it was Nixon that went
to China and made peace with the Chinese
and open diplomatic relations. And I,
call me crazy, but I think that if
there's going to be peace with Iran,
Donald Trump's going to make that peace
with Iran. It may not be in the form of
a trip to Tehran, but I could see a trip
to Riad and have a meeting brokered by
by Muhammad bin Salman and maybe we can
come to some sort of an agreement on on
issue number one or issue number two.
>> Well, it seems to be a part of what he
wants to accomplish in these four years
is that he wants to go down as having
made significant change in the world in
a positive direction. and and we're
seeing it whether whether people want to
admit it or not.
>> That's part of the problem because of
narratives.
>> That's it. You know, peace between India
and Pakistan doesn't doesn't fit in the
Democratic party's narrative that Donald
Trump is a wararmonger. He's not a
wararmonger.
>> Ask, you know, the Africans that he's
weighed in for and we have peace in
subsaharan Africa now.
>> Or this agreement today between Hamas
and and uh the Israelis. You know, I
think this is the first of several new
developments that's going to lead to the
end of this conflict.
>> What is your take on
Netanyahu's position? Because
if war is over, Netanyahu will no longer
be running Israel. Is that correct?
Eventually,
Netanyahu has a vested interest in
making sure that this war lasts as long
as possible because remember he's still
under indictment for corruption. Also,
one thing that most Americans don't
understand is the Israeli political
system is such that it is literally
impossible for any party to win a
working majority in the Knesset, right?
There are just too many parties and too
many individual interests. So you've
got, you know, a dozen parties
represented. Benjamin Netanyahu has
never won more than 27% of the vote.
>> Wow.
>> He's very unpopular. It's just that he's
the least unpopular of the unpopular pal
uh politicians. I It's a crazy way to
run a country. One of the things that
the Greeks did because the Greeks had
the same problem. They're just too many
parties, right? So you win 20% and you
become the prime minister. 20%, nobody
wants you,
>> right?
>> So what they did is they they raised the
threshold
>> to which you have to which you have to
meet to to win election to the
parliament from 3% to 5%. So that
narrows it down to like six or seven
parties. But then the party that comes
in first first pass the poll gets an
extra 50 seats. Then you don't have to
go into any coalition governments with
anybody and you can run the country for
four years or 5 years or whatever it
happens to be. That's what the Israelis
need to do. But but Netanyahu, longest
serving prime minister in Israeli
history, wildly unpopular. And it's
funny because he used to be considered a
right-wing extremist and now he's the
moderate of the government.
>> Really?
>> Mhm. the likes of Idomar Bengavir and uh
and uh Smootrich and these other guys
who have come in from the right, they
were attacking him to the point where he
had to bring their parties into this
coalition government just to get them to
shut up. I mean, these are people that
have felony convictions for anti-Arab
hate crimes and now they're, you know,
Minister of National Security, Minister
of Finance with responsibility for the
West Bank. What's that?
>> Wow.
>> It's a terrible untenable
position.
>> Haven't they decided to go ahead and
prosecute him even while he's in office?
>> Yeah, there's an ongoing uh dispute that
the Israeli Supreme Court has weighed in
on a number of times. So, the Minister
of Justice is appointed, of course, by
the Prime Minister, but the Supreme
Court is independent of the Prime
Minister and the Minister of Justice. So
the Minister of Justice says, "You can't
prosecute him while he's prime
minister." And the Supreme Court says,
"Oh yes, you can." And orders the court
then to continue the case. So if the
case is going to be continued,
Netanyahu's only viable strategy is
delaying tactics. Appeal after appeal
after appeal. You make uh you submit
motions on little technical issues.
Maybe you get them to focus on Mrs.
Netanyahu, who's also under indictment,
and you just delay it as long as you
can. But the best argument that he has
is, I can't focus on my own defense
because I have a war to prosecute.
>> Well, if there's peace,
then he's going to have to go on trial.
>> Wow.
Which incentivizes him to stay at war,
which is so crazy,
>> isn't it, though?
>> Strange situation. Well, a lot of people
aren't aware that there was hundreds of
thousands of people protesting in the
streets before October 7th.
>> Oh, you're exactly right. In fact, in
August, we saw the biggest protests in
American history, sorry, in Israeli
history demanding that Netanyahu resign.
And it was all because of corruption.
>> And what is the specific corruption that
he's being accused of?
>> You know, it's changed over the years.
Some of it had to do with business.
Others had to do other accusations had
to do with him um trying to essentially
sell positions in the government, but
you know, I I read the accusations when
they first came out. They weren't
strong.
They're defensible.
So, I I don't know why he doesn't just
grab the bull by the horns and and go
for it.
>> Wow.
So out of all the issues that we face
internationally,
do you think that the Israel Palestine
is the most significant one?
>> I don't actually. I think the threat is
greater from China.
The Chinese are incredibly patient. Um
there was a there was a joke in uh The
Onion the other day. It was a bunch of
Chinese guys just sitting around a table
and it said uh the Chinese government
sits and waits for the United States to
uh self-destruct or continue its
self-destruction or something like that.
It's because they know that they can
they can outweigh us. You know, we we we
have convinced ourselves over the
decades that we have to be all around
the world uh protecting the weak and
those without a voice and being the
peacemaker. You know, we have we have uh
190 bases in 144 countries. We have to
do all that. And the Chinese say, "Yeah,
yeah, you have to go ahead. Spend all
your money on that stuff. In the
meantime, we're going to have 350 mph
trains and the best highways in the
world and the best schools and the best
hospitals and the nicest airports. And
then all of our extra money, we're going
to essentially bribe foreign countries
to do things that we want them to do.
So, it's a lesson that I think we
haven't learned as a country that there
are other ways of of winning hearts and
minds.
Well, it's also they're actively engaged
in
making sure that people are arguing
online, which is fascinating.
>> You know, they're very good at these
kinds of behind the scenes like quasi
uh spy like surreptitious actions. They
actively promote
us arguing, fighting, disagreeing. They
promote these societal disruptions that
we're all so uh so worried about. And
you know, we we blame the Russians all
the time and certainly the Russians do
this kind of thing, too. But it's the
Chinese that have really perfected it.
And I think that most Americans don't
realize how much we should be worried
about that and trying to counter it.
>> Well, what could be done to counter it?
Because a lot of it is what's going on
in social media is echo chambers.
>> People exist in these echo chambers. are
completely addicted to their
smartphones. They're on the algorithm
all day long. They're checking things
and getting ramped up by things and
they're being told
various narratives, whatever it is. And
there was a story recently about um
China getting caught using chat GPT for
various different services where they
were using bots and you know so they had
done it automated through chat GPT. Brad
Parcal is doing it right now on behalf
of the Israelis. He recently won a $6
million contract to train Chat GPT to be
more pro-Israel.
>> It was in Reason magazine a couple of
days ago. Um
>> well, you also have the recent purchase
of Tik Tok and absolutely a lot going on
which I think could be very helpful uh
for us. One of the things that we're bad
at is identifying bots and controlling
bots once they've been identified. I'll
give you an example. Um, I've I write
columns all the time and have my own
little podcast and and I said that I was
optimistic that a deal seemed to be at
hand, you know, between Israel and the
Gaza Palestinians. And then immediately
I started getting attacked and it was it
was by obviously anonymous
um writers. I can't imagine that these
writers are human beings. They had to be
bots. One called me vireolently
anti-semitic.
>> Whoa.
>> Because I said this deal that it it
appears the president has negotiated was
a good idea. So I'm virulently
anti-semitic. And then they built on
that. And by the end of it, and nobody
else was commenting, but by the end of
it, they said that I was um I was
morbidly obese and ugly and stupid, too.
Like, what the [__] is that?
>> That doesn't sound Chinese.
>> Morbidly obese, ugly, and stupid, too.
>> Uhhuh.
>> You don't even look a little fat.
>> No, no. I I'm 61, 190. I feel like I'm
okay.
>> You look great. That's so funny. It's
kind of hilarious, though. But if you
just say things, enough people are going
to believe it that it's effective. It at
least it moves a narrative into a
certain direction,
>> you know. and chat GPT and these other
chat bots are very easy to um to
influence. When chat GPT first came out,
just for fun, I said, "Who is John
Kuryaku?" And it said, "John Kuryaku is
a former CIA officer, blew the whistle
in the torture program, etc." John
Kuryaku graduated from the University of
Maryland and earned a master's degree in
peace studies from the University of
Bruge in Belgium. I don't even know
where the University of Maryland is
located specifically. I know it's called
College Park. I don't know how to get
there. I've never been to the University
of Maryland. I didn't know there was a
university in Bruge, let alone one that
gave me a degree in peace studies. So I
said, "John Kuryaku graduated from
George Washington University with
degrees in this and that."
And it says, "You are incorrect." And I
said, "No, you are incorrect." And then
it says, "No, you are incorrect."
And then I just gave up.
Why didn't you just say I'm actually
John Kiyaku? You [__] afraid it was
what it was going to do to me.
>> But I mean, did you ask it where are you
getting your your information from?
>> No, but it pulls from literally
everywhere,
>> right? So there's a narrative out there
somehow or another that there's
universities that you never attended,
>> right?
>> Huh.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And then you know if you make
somebody angry you can be just deleted
from chat GPT. Uh a friend of mine was
puler surprise nominated political
cartoonist Ted R. He did the same thing.
Who is Ted R? Well Ted R we know is 15
years at the Los Angeles Times as an
award-winning editorial cartoonist. It
says there is no such person as Ted Raw.
>> Hm.
So I wonder who he pissed off.
>> Have you tried subsequently?
>> No.
>> Let's see what Perplexity says.
>> Okay.
>> Pull up. That's what we use. That's one
of our sponsors. Let's see who is John
Kuryaku. Let's see if they get it wrong,
too. Cuz if that's the case, that means
somebody probably planted this incorrect
information out there into it,
>> which is like how and why? Like what
would be the purpose of doing that?
What? I mean, especially something
that's not even derogatory. It's just
>> it's just factually incorrect.
>> Yeah. About your education. He gave you
different places that you went to
school, which is weird.
>> Like that doesn't even make sense.
>> No.
>> Like what would what would be the
benefit of that?
>> I have no idea.
>> Answer.
>> Well, I was trying to get it didn't give
the education to try to get
>> But just to ask it, who is John Keryaku?
Let's see what it says.
>> Who is John Keryaku? Okay.
Uh, American whistleblower, author,
journalist, former intelligence officer.
All that stuff's true. Personal
background, CIA, 1990. All this is
accurate.
>> Yeah. All of that is accurate.
>> Whistleblowing and legal case
>> recognition and advocacy.
Remain active in speaking out against
torture and advocating for government
transparency and ethical intelligence
policies. All that's true. Yep.
>> So,
>> Perplexity gets it absolutely correct.
Um, absolutely correct.
>> So, ask a followup. What is his
education history? There it is.
>> Graduated from Newcastle High School,
>> Washington University. All this is
accurate.
>> All that's all that's correct.
>> Okay. So, it seems like whatever it was
was just in chat GPT,
>> which is really weird.
>> Well, I'm using perplexity from now on.
>> What do you think it could have been?
Like, what would be the benefit of
giving incorrect information about your
education in chat GPT?
>> I don't know. I I don't know. But I I'll
tell you, I used Chat GPT. I teach a
class in is a graduate school class in
the history of terrorism at the
University of Salamanca in in Spain. And
so I I was very proud of the the course
outline that I had written up and I put
the whole thing I just cut and pasted it
into chat GPT and I asked it to
recommend scholarly journal articles
that I could use to supplement you know
the the books that I had recommended.
So for the 14
sessions of the pod, it gave me 14
different links. Every single one of the
links was fake.
>> Whoa.
>> Every single one of them. There were no
such links. There were no such articles.
It just made it all up.
Is it possible that chat GPT is like has
a mandate to [__] with you?
>> You know what I mean?
>> It's possible. Imagine if you weren't
doing your due diligence,
>> right? And you just incorporated those
links and they're like, "Oh my god,
Kuriyaku is a fraud. These aren't even
real articles. This is [__]
>> right?
>> That's crazy." So, too,
>> do you I mean, you must be paranoid. I
mean, you have to be, right? I'm
paranoid.
>> You have to be.
>> I mean, but you you must be
>> because of what's happened to you. When
you see something like that, you must be
like, "What the fuck?" It's almost like
they're just always trying to get you.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. I do feel that way somewhat
sometimes. I'm sure that you do, too.
You know the old saying, just because
you're paranoid doesn't mean they're not
out to get you.
>> Yeah.
>> There were times when I after I got out
of prison, the the first two years after
I got out of prison, that every once in
a while, and I'll preface this by saying
I was a surveillance detection
instructor at the CIA. Every once in a
while, I would see surveillance and um
and I would write down the license
number and just call my lawyer and then
he'd call me, you know, a day later and
say, "It's the FBI. They're just curious
as to what you're up to." Oh god.
>> And I'd say all they have to do is ask.
It's all they have to do. They don't
have to follow me to get pizza with a
buddy of mine and rest in. You know,
>> you see them following you.
>> They're really not good at surveillance.
>> Which is horrible because that's their
job,
>> right?
>> God, John,
you've been through a a quite an
odyssey.
>> It's awful. It really is awful. I I'm
serious when I say I wouldn't wish it on
anybody. It's a horrible thing.
>> But it's it's also awful because you've
done so much good for your country.
>> I've tried.
>> That's what's crazy. And that's I look
I'm you know, I criticize intelligence
agencies and everybody else for doing
wrong things, but I think they're
important. Very important. I do.
>> When people say we need to dismantle the
CIA and dismant I'm like,
>> what are you talking about? You know,
like Mike Baker, I've had long
conversations with him about threats
overseas. Like, if you talk to someone
who's actually worked in the field, they
will give you an understanding of all
the bad things that are happening in the
world that we have to keep tabs on.
Like, don't say we should not pay
attention. That is [__] crazy talk.
You just don't want to corrupt CIA.
>> That's right. That's it. That's the
bottom line right there. We don't want a
corrupt CIA. We don't want a politicized
CIA.
>> Politicized. Yes.
>> I'll give you another example.
Yesterday, just yesterday, the deputy
director of the CIA, Ellis, named
himself the acting general counsel. And
people were like, "Oh my god, I woke up
and I see these podcast. Oh my god,
Ellis has taken over the CIA." So, I I
do a little bit of research and by the
end of it, I was like, "Yeah, I would
have done the same thing if I were
Ellis." He's qualified, right? He's had
all the the relative jobs, NSA, ODNI,
CIA,
House Intelligence Committee. He's done
all these jobs. He wants the Office of
the General Counsel to do what it's told
to do, to further the mission of the
CIA, and they refuse to do it. And so he
took over.
You can't criticize that. Yeah, that
seems like a if he's a just man, that
seems like a good response.
>> But I don't know. I don't know enough
about that world to comment on it,
honestly. But getting back to your point
and Mike Baker's point, you know, we and
I'm out of the CIA, so I I don't know as
much as I used to know on a daily basis,
but but Americans get only just a little
a little
tidbit of what's happening in the world.
Like, we don't read about these emerging
threats. for example, we'll never know
about some kind of counterterrorism
operation that succeeded, you know, and
that saved Americans from a terrorist
attack. We'll just never know because
that's the that's the nature of
intelligence,
>> right?
>> You're not supposed to know,
>> You know, the likes of Timothy Winer
will write a book about failures,
but the successes have to remain secret.
>> Wow. Do you like what is it like having
been a public servant, having worked for
the government and having done
all these things that are so critical
and important for national security and
then to have that machine turn on you,
do your time in prison and come out and
now being someone who talks about it
all.
>> Yeah, it it was hard at first, Joe. I
won't lie to you. I felt really alone in
the world. And then a couple of days
after my arrest, I got an email from a
retired deputy director of the CIA, a
guy that I had worked for at the very
start of my career, and he said, I saved
this as a kind of a souvenir. He said,
"You've chosen a difficult path. I only
wish that I had had the guts to do it
myself."
>> Whoa. And that made it that changed my
entire
outlook on what I was facing. That I I
actually wasn't alone. And most of my
CIA friends, like the people who were
truly friends of mine at the CIA are
still friends of mine today.
>> Oh, that's great.
>> They had to be discreet about it for a
little while, but they never walked away
from me.
>> Well, that's great.
>> Mhm.
>> John, you're a strong man.
>> Yeah. you know, no how you've gone
through all this
>> um come out on the other side as a
person who comments on the state of the
intelligence agencies.
Yeah,
>> I'll add too that
that the election of Donald Trump
in in kind of an odd way freed me up to
be more vocal
because
the Obama people and the Biden people
were far far more willing to say that is
speech that we don't like that needs to
be prosecuted.
And with Donald Trump,
and I don't know if he even meant to do
this or not, it's like so much more is
out there and in the public realm, the
public domain.
>> Why do you think that is?
>> You know, I think I think at the end of
the day, that's populism.
It's just a different way of looking at
government.
It's funny because under populism the
feeling is very strong that they work
for us and they answer to us. And with
these mainstream administrations,
whether it's Obama, Biden, George W.
Bush, it's like, well, the wise men are
running the government, so we need to
sit by quietly and let them do their
their important work.
>> And that's how things like the Patriot
Act get snuck in.
>> Exactly. Right. That's a great point.
Yes.
>> And and and the NDAA and the NDA. We're
not going to use that,
>> right?
>> We don't use that on Don't worry. You
know, when I was when I was in the on
the Senate uh Foreign Relations
Committee staff, the Obama
administration passed
the NDAA in 20 whatever it was
>> 15
>> where they legalized propagandization of
the American people,
>> right?
>> This came out of the most innocuous
issue. We had this propaganda station,
radio and television called Radio TV
Marti and it was beamed at uh Cuba,
right? The only thing the Cubans really
care about watching from us is baseball.
So we would broadcast a lot of baseball
games, but the way it was being
broadcast from Florida, there was this
little strip of land on the Gulf Coast
in southern Florida where they could
pick it up, but only with like Dish
Network. I think is what it was. Well,
that's illegal because it's a propaganda
station and Americans can't watch
American propaganda. And so rather than
like not broadcast it anymore or move
the satellite or whatever, they decided
we'll change the law to make it easier
and more and legal to propagandize the
American people. So now the government
can produce any propaganda that it wants
and force it on the American people.
It's like, thank you, Barack Obama. Now,
I don't even know if the news that I'm
reading is real or not. Thank you.
>> That is so insane.
That is so insane that that's the origin
of it.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. Lazy bastards.
>> Well, lazy and also just taking
advantage of an opportunity
>> because this is an opportunity to push
something through that
>> could be beneficial if you want to push
propaganda on the American people. And
up until now, it's been illegal.
>> That's right.
>> Has there ever been any talk of turning
that back?
>> No. A lot of people believed that after
Ed Snowden's revelations, it would be
turned back, even if it were just, you
know, one part at a time. And that's
just never happened.
>> No.
>> Where's Where's the outrage?
>> No. Where is the outrage? And he's got
to hide in Russia.
>> Mhm.
>> Yep.
>> Crazy.
depressing.
>> Do you think it could possibly push
further in that direction?
>> Oh, I think that that
first of all, 100% yes. I think that
it's natural that it would push it would
push further. It's up to us to to push
back and I don't think the American
people have their act together enough.
>> Well, we're too divided.
>> Yeah, that's part of We really are. But
something like the NDA should be a
nonpartisan issue. Everyone should be
looking at that and go, "This is crazy.
>> Something like using propaganda against
American citizens." Like,
>> what's the pros and what's the cons? I
want two columns. I want you to write
down all the things that are going to be
negatively affected by propaganda on
American citizens. All the ways they
could be used corruptly,
>> and then all the positives we're going
to get out of it.
>> Oh, we can lie to Cuba. [__] you. That's
not enough. No, it's not enough. I went
to Cuba last year because they they
translated my first two books into
Spanish and put them in the National
Library of Cuba and they had this
ceremony during the international book
something or other for a bunch of
American authors. So, I went and before
I went, my editor at Consortium News
said, "Do me a favor." He said, "Ever
since I was a little kid, I've been an
avid radio listener." He said, "Tune in
a after sunset when the signals are
stronger. tune in to American radio
stations and tell me if the Cubans are
jamming them or if you can hear
stations. I said, "That's a great idea."
So, I had a radio there in my hotel room
and I got too many American stations.
Miami and Fort Myers and anything you
want to hear in Cuba from the United
States, you can hear. They don't jam
anything. And it's baseball, baseball,
baseball. They want to hear every
baseball game. We don't need radio TV.
Marty, you know, I get a kick out of the
Washington Post just clobers Carrie Lake
all the time. Every time every time she
testifies on Capitol Hill about the
Voice of America, they're like, "No, we
need Voice of America. We need to spend
another $50 million to why?
We don't need to propagize them." Have
First of all, have you ever heard of
this thing called the internet? Right?
because that's where almost everybody
gets their information. You want to
propagandize people, do it on the
internet, not on some AM radio station
that you're beaming off into space in
the middle of the night.
>> Well, they must be doing that anyway.
They must be using
>> propagandize. I should hope so.
>> I mean, these bots that we're worried
about from China, a bunch of them have
to also be from America.
>> I would assume some agency.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is just like And then as AI gets
more and more powerful, it's the race
like who's in charge of that? Yeah,
>> like how does that go? And what happens
when everything gets automated? And what
happens when everyone gets on universal
basic income and then they're relying
entirely on the government,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> Good point.
>> And this is maybe a decade away.
>> It's coming.
>> Yeah.
>> Mhm.
>> Um, is there anything else you're
concerned about before we wrap this up
that you want to talk about?
>> I'm less concerned about the Russians.
Um, I think the president has played
this right. He he tried to kind of force
the two sides together. He got pushed
back. He did what he could. We just have
to wait until they slug it out and then
when it looks like one's going down,
then we can step in and try to negotiate
something. But what are you going to do?
>> Is that really the only solution at this
point?
>> You know, I have a lot of friends who
are um professors of Russian studies,
Soviet studies, all this stuff. And they
all say the same thing that the Russians
are winning, the Ukrainians are losing.
So the policy decision is, do we really
want to jump in on the side of the
Ukrainians
or do we want to let
diplomacy let diplomats do what they're
paid to do? And I always say, sure, we
used to make fun of the Bush
administration was when I was at the
agency because we had never seen an
administration work so hard to not speak
to our enemies, right? We weren't
allowed to talk to the Russians or the
Chinese or the North Koreans or the
Iraqis or the Iranians or the Cubans,
the Venezuelans. Like, my god, who do we
talk to? We're not going to accomplish
anything diplomatically if we just talk
to the British and the French and the
Germans.
So, keeping the lines of communication
open, I think, are very important to
settling this. I think eventually what
everybody predicted at the very
beginning of the hostilities is going to
be the final result. and that is that
the Ukrainians are going to lose
territory. Um, and the Russians are
going to have to agree to probably
fasttrack membership into the European
Union for Ukraine and not NATO
membership, but major non-NATO ally
status, the same status that we have for
Australia and Japan and Bahrain and
Saudi Arabia and the Emirates
and Ukraine. I think that's how it's
going to end up.
I just can't imagine why they would want
to keep it going. I mean, at this point,
they're
>> Well, what I'm told is that Putin is
under great pressure from his military
establishment.
That that the Russian people don't
necessarily want this to continue as
much as the Russian military leadership
does. That's what these professors are
telling me.
>> And why do they want to continue it?
>> Because they want to destroy Ukraine.
They want to take Kiev. They they want
it to to collapse.
You know, there are a lot of Russians
who don't believe that Ukraine is a
legitimate country.
You know, even Crimea, Crimea was
Russian until 1953. Kruev gave it to the
Ukrainians as a gift and then the
Russians took it back in 14.
>> And so they feel the same way about Kev.
>> Mhm.
>> It's just so horrible to see like
60-year-old men getting conscripted. Oh,
it's off right off the street
>> and Yeah. kidnapped. Just sent right to
the front of the line, right to the wood
chipper.
>> Yeah. It's just terrible.
>> And we don't even know the real numbers
casualties.
>> No, we don't. It's got to be huge for
the Ukrainians at least.
>> So, you're not concerned about that? You
think that's going to work itself out?
As tragic as it is?
>> I I think it's going to burn itself out
eventually. I'm I'm very worried that
the Israelis are going to attack Iran
again. I'm I'm worried that the Israelis
aren't going to respect the the deal
that appears to be in process in Gaza or
the West Bank. I mean, we're not talking
about the West Bank,
>> right?
>> Where where just two weeks ago a
Christian village ceased to exist
because settlers from New Jersey took
all their houses.
>> You know what happens next in in the
West?
>> From New Jersey. Yeah, there are a lot
of uh synagogues in New York, New
Jersey, Toronto that have these things
called called real estate seminars
where you can put your name on a list
and then they call you and say, "Hey,
uh, house just opened up over here in
this Arab village that's not Arab
anymore.
Come and take your house." And the two
weeks ago, the village that the Israelis
cleared out was one of the last
remaining Christian villages.
Drives me crazy.
>> Wow.
>> So, what do you think their overall
strategy is? They they eventually want
to just take over all Palestine.
>> I think we should we should believe the
Israelis when they tell us that that
they believe in greater Israel which
includes the West Bank, the Gaza Strip,
the southern quarter of Lebanon, a strip
in in south western Syria, and I mean
the map that Netanyahu had at the UN the
other day included the Sinai Peninsula
for heaven's sake. What's that all
about?
They took the Sinai in the ' 67 war and
gave it back after the Camp David
Accords.
So this Yeah, we've we've
I I'm worried about about Israel.
>> Yeah.
>> What are you worried about Israel's
influence on American politics? cuz
that's one of the things that's coming
to light over the last couple of years
since the invasion where people are
paying more and more attention to Israel
and then also seeing what happens when
you criticize Israel.
>> They are very quick to primary elected
officials who criticize Israel and
usually they'll win those primaries.
Apac is very well funded. It is very
very well organized. It's it's the gold
standard of of lobbying organizations.
I've never understood why Apac doesn't
have to register as a foreign agent with
uh the Justice Department when everybody
else does. Why Why is Apac special that
it doesn't have to register? You know,
back in 2008, I guess it was, I won a
very small contract to write um it was
like six op-eds for the Abu Dhabi
Chamber of Commerce. Uh and it was
because I was going to write OpEds that
supported American business in Abu
Dhabi, right? So, I had to go on
far.gov, f. of it's the foreign um
agents registration act and there's a
form there and I said yeah I took you
know I I won this contract it was like
30 grand to write these six opeds and
the source of the income is the Abu
Dhabi Chamber of Commerce and here's my
name and my address and my phone number
done I registered so if you're doing
something anything on behalf of a
foreign government you have to register
except if you're APAC.
And I just don't understand that.
>> That seems so insane. And whenever you
see like just dozens of senators and
congress people going over to Israel
like,
>> oh, oh man, my my very first week in the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee
staff, these lobbyists came in. We had
it was a parade of lobbyists all the
time. every day they're coming in asking
for something. So, um, these two guys
came in. Could not have been any
friendlier. Hi, welcome to Capitol Hill.
I said, "Oh, thanks. It's not my first
goround. I've worked on Capitol Hill
before." Well, we wanted to welcome you
with a an all expenses paid trip to the
Holy Land.
I said, "Thanks. No, I can pay for my
own vacations, but I appreciate it. Oh,
nonsense. We'll take you to all the
Christian holy sites. Thank you. I've
been. I don't want to go. And some of my
colleagues went for their all expenses
paid trip to the Holy Land.
>> Yeah.
>> Courtesy of Apac.
>> I was like, "Yeah, no, thank you. Not
interested."
>> Yeah. And that's just the beginning of
it. That's nothing compared to helping
out your campaigns.
>> Well, I'll tell you, I I tell this story
a lot, but I think it's I think it's
appropriate here. I had been at the
agency for
two and a half months, maybe two about
two and a half months. And I was uh told
to give my very first liaison briefing.
So, this is going to be uh the Israeli
Mossad and Shinbet.
and uh I was going to be one of about
eight analysts and I was the most junior
so I would go last. Well, we don't allow
the Israelis into CIA headquarters. We
used to, but every time they would come,
they'd say, "Hey, we brought gifts.
Here's a gift for you." And it's all
packed full of listening devices and
batteries and we every one of them.
>> Every one of them. And we'd say, "You
guys, you can't come back here every
single time." And try to bug our
conference rooms.
>> What' they say to that?
>> Oh,
sorry. Well, we're not sure how that
happened. So, we're like, "Yeah, you
can't come in here anymore." So, we rent
an office where we meet the Israelis off
campus.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. Cuz you just can't trust them. So,
>> that is so crazy.
>> We go to this briefing and it's just two
people. It's a woman who was the Mossad
officer and an older guy who was the
Shinbet officer. So, because we were all
overt, we were giving our true names.
And first the senior political officer
gives her briefing and then the econ guy
and the military guy and the oil guy and
finally comes around to me. So I said,
"My name is John Kiryaku and I'm going
to brief you on Saddam Hussein's current
psychology."
And the Shinbet guy goes like this. He
goes,
"Spell your name." So I spell it and he
writes it down and he's looking at me
over his glasses and he goes, "You are
uh Jewish.
And I said, "I am not recruitable. Don't
even think about trying to recruit me."
Afterwards, I was furious. I went back
to the office. My boss said, "How did it
go?" I said, "That son of a gun shinet
guy tried to recruit me." Everybody
started laughing. I said, "Why is that
so funny?" And he said, "They've done
that to every single one of us. It's
like they can't help themselves.
>> It's crazy how effective it is though.
>> Oh yeah. Look at Jonathan Pard now. He's
running for the Knesset
bastard.
>> It's just crazy how much influence one
country has.
>> Yeah, it really is.
>> On a much bigger country.
>> Much bigger. And they have such a tiny
population.
>> I know. What is it like 9 million
people?
>> Yeah.
>> Pretty gangster. It's pretty gangster.
>> Kudos kudos to them.
>> It's like Chicago taking over the world.
>> That's That's right.
>> And saying we're going to do things our
way.
>> Not even Chicago. Chicago might have
more people.
>> [__]
>> Wow. Well, listen, John, I really
appreciate your time and uh thank you
and
>> and thank you for your story.
>> Thank you so much for having me. This
was a real creature and it's a horrible
thing that they did to you, but uh it's
I'm so glad you're out so we can get
your insight.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Appreciate you very much.
>> Pleasure. Thanks so much.
>> All right. Bye everybody.
[Music]
[Applause]